WELCOME TO THE THURSDAY, JUNE
8TH, TWENTY TWENTY THREE
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY
VISITING MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
WHO WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON
HEARINGS OR OTHER MATTERS MAY
DO SO IN PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO
SPEAK DURING ANY THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE
CALL TWO OH SIX THREE THREE
SEVEN NINE SEVEN TWO THREE OR
TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN ENTER MEETING ID NINE SIX
FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE NINE
SEVEN SIX TWO.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON QUIéN CHANNEL 16
AT&T CHANNEL NINETY NINE AND
ONLINE AT W W W DOT A TO GO BAG
WATCH S.T. AND WE INTEND TO
CONDUCT THIS HYBRID MEETING
SIMILAR TO AN IN-PERSON
MEETING.
HOWEVER PLEASE BE PATIENT IF
THERE ARE TECHNICAL ISSUES WILL
GO ON TO ROLL CALL.
MR. STATURE WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL COMMISSIONER HERE
COMMISSIONER US HERE
COMMISSIONER K.A. COMMISSIONER
ROCHLIN HERE COMMISSIONER
EVERSON YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
OK, MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY MODIFICATIONS TO
TONIGHT'S AGENDA?
THEY ARE NOT OK.
SO WITHOUT OBJECTION THE AGENDA
IS APPROVED AS PRESENTED AND
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT PART D ON THE AGENDA.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL IN USING THE INFORMATION
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND THE VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND ONE BY ONE
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER IN ORDER
TO ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR
HAND TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE.
SO DO THAT NOW
YOU WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
FROM THE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
DO WE HAVE ANY ONE FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT TODAY?
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE ANY ONE
PERSON IN NO, I DON'T SEE
ANYONE IN THE ZOUMA.
THANK YOU.
VERY GOOD IN THAT CASE WE WILL
MOVE ON TO PART UNFINISHED
BUSINESS AND THERE IS NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO THEN WE
WILL MOVE RIGHT ON TO F
HEARINGS AND HEARING F ONE IS
FOR TWENTY TWO S SEVENTH
STREET.
MISS THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE
GIVE THE STAFF REPORT.
YES THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR TWENTY TWO S
SEVENTH STRAIGHT IS IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS ONE THREE QUARTERS STOREY
VERNACULAR HOME FEATURES THREE
OVER ONE FOUR OVER ONE AND FIVE
OVER ONE WINDOWS A SIMPLE RAKE
BOARD THE BOARD SUPPORTS A TWO
THIRDS WITH FRONT PORCH WITH
TAPERED DOWN COLUMNS SCHEDULE
FOR DECADES OPPOSITE CONCRETE
BLOCK FOUNDATION THAT MATCHES
THE FOUNDATION OF THE HOUSE THE
FRONT IN CYBERSECURITY ORIGINAL
THE SOUTH SIDE, THE BAY WINDOW
ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND LARGE
GABLE WALL DORMER UPSTAIRS AND
THE ROOF FEATURES A RED BRICK
CHIMNEY.
THE HOUSE WAS FIRST OCCUPIED IN
NINETEEN SEVENTEEN HER CITY
ASSESSOR RECORDS IT IS ON THE
WEST SIDE OF S SEVENTH STREET
SOUTH OF WEST LIBERTY AND NORTH
OF WEST JEFFERSON AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A FIVE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SQUARE FOOT
ONE AND THREE QUARTER STOREY
REAR EDITION AUTOCROSS BASE.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE WE ARE ON S SEVENTH STREET
.
THESE ARE PHOTOS FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE SITE VISIT ON
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE IS AN
EXISTING MUDROOM.
THIS IS NOT CONDITION SPACE.
IT IS CLAD IN ALUMINUM SIDING
LIKE THE REST OF THE HOUSE.
SO WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
UNDERNEATH THERE.
IT DOES NOT APPEAR ON SANDBORN
MAPS FROM NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN
OR NINETEEN THIRTY ONE OR ANY
EARLIER THAN SO WE WERE I WAS A
LITTLE BIT SURPRISED WHEN THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE GOT OUT THERE
AND WE SAW THAT THE FOUNDATION
MATCHED THE FOUNDATION OF THE
HOUSE.
THE WINDOWS ALSO APPEAR TO BE
OLDISH THERE THERE WOOD AND
THERE FOR DIVIDED LIGHTS I
THINK JUST ONE SASH WALKING
AROUND THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
THIS IS THE OTHER SIDE THE
COMMISSION WILL PROBABLY WANT
TO TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
WHETHER THIS IS A CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURE OF THE HOUSE
AGAIN SINCE IT DOESN'T
APPEARANCE AND WHAT THEY DON'T
OFTEN MAKE THAT EGREGIOUS OF AN
ERROR.
SO I'M DOING A LOT
OF QUESTIONING OF WHETHER THEY
HAVE LEFTOVER BLOCKS THAT THEY
USED JUST FOR THE ABOVE GRADE
PORTION HERE.
THE DECORATIVE PORTION OF THIS
PORCH.
BUT THE WINDOWS LOOK OLD SO ITS
AGE IS A LITTLE BIT AMBIGUOUS
BUT IT DOES NOT CONDITION
SPACE.
IT'S JUST A MUDROOM.
A PORCH.
YEAH, ON THE LEFT LET'S SEE WE
HAVE CURRENT ELEVATIONS ON THE
BOTTOM.
THESE NICE RENDERINGS, THE
PROPOSED ON THE TOP YOU CAN SEE
THAT THERE'S TWO STOREY
ADDITION PROPOSED ON THE BACK
WITH WILDOMAR AND THE NORTH
SIDE WHICH YOU SEE RIGHT HERE.
IT'S GOT A LOT OF WINDOWS ON
THE BACK.
THE WINDOWS ARE FOR OVER ONE OR
ACTUALLY THESE ARE THREE OVER
ONE THE THE WINDOWS AND THE
REMAINDER OF THE HOUSE IS SORT
OF A HODGEPODGE.
THE THE ONE IN THE FRONT THE
BIG WINDOW IS LIKE FIVE OVER
ONE.
SOME OF THEM ARE FOUR OVER ONE,
SOME OF THEM ARE THREE OR FOUR
ONE BUT THE SIZE OF THESE
WINDOWS IS VARIED FROM THOSE
THAT ON THE HOUSE NOW THESE ARE
LARGER AND PAIRED THERE AREN'T
MANY WINDOWS THERE ARE IN THE
FRONT BUT THE NEW PROPOSED ONES
ARE LARGER.
THEY'RE ALSO VARYING THE WINDOW
CASING WHICH WE'LL GET TO IN
JUST A SECOND.
SO HERE ARE THE ELEVATION
DRAWINGS.
THIS IS THE THE WHAT YOU'D SEE
OF A NEW EDITION STRAIGHT ON
THE FRONT IS THE NORTH SIDE AS
THAT LITTLE WALL DORMER IT IS
15 INCHES LOWER THAN THE RIDGE
OF THE ROOF WHICH SHOULD CLEAR
ANY TRIM BOARD IF THERE IS ONE
UNDER THAT BUILDING AND I'M
SIDING THIS IS A SUPERSTAR
FORWARD ADDITION FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE IT IS INSET AT BOTH
OF THE CORNERS A LITTLE BIT
MORE ON THE NORTH, A LITTLE BIT
LESS ON THE SOUTH FL LIKE DOOR
ON THE BACK.
THE SIDING ON THAT ADDITION IS
PROPOSED TO BE CEMENT ABOARD
LAPPE SIDING.
THERE WAS A VERY WELCOME AMOUNT
OF DETAIL INCLUDED ON THE
DRAWINGS THEY ARE PROPOSING TO
KEEP THE RED BRICK CHIMNEY
WHICH IS WONDERFUL TO NOT HAVE
TO DISCUSS BECAUSE THAT'S THE
RIGHT THING TO DO.
THEY'RE TAKING IT OUT IN
FLORA'S BASEMENT FIRST AND
SECOND AND KEEPING IT IN THE
ATTIC AND ABOVE THE ROOFLINE
THE LET'S SAY THESE ARE THE
EXISTING FLOOR PLANS ARE NOT
GOING TO SPEND A LOT OF TIME ON
THOSE.
HERE'S THE PROPOSED FOOTPRINT.
THIS IS ON A CRAWL SPACE ON THE
BACK IT WOULD KNOCK OUT A
LITTLE BIT OF THE BASEMENT WALL
IN THE BACK TO ACCESS THE CRAWL
.
YOU CAN SEE HOW THE CORNERS ARE
KNOCKED IN THIS SIDE IS ONE
FOOT ELEVEN.
LOOKS LIKE THIS SIDE IS CLOSER
TO OF DOESN'T ACTUALLY SAY IT'S
NOT MARKED MAYBE A FOOT AND A
HALF UPSTAIRS SECOND FLOOR BIG
SQUARE EDITION.
THERE ARE CROSS SECTIONS WHICH
ARE ALWAYS APPRECIATED AND I'M
NOT GOING TO LINGER ON THE
SECTIONS UNLESS YOU GOING TO
COME BACK TO HIM THE WINDOW
TRIM IS INTERESTING.
THEY'VE CHOSEN TO NOT MITER THE
CORNERS IN ORDER TO DISTINGUISH
IT FROM THE EXISTING SEE THE
PROPOSED JUST A FLAT BOARD ON
TOP WITH A NEW DRIP CAP AND
THESE HAVE BEEN A LITTLE BIT
MUDDLED SINCE THERE IS ALUMINUM
AND I THINK THAT THERE'S SOME
SORT OF A CHANNEL AROUND THOSE
.
THE NEW TRIM IS SUPPOSED TO BE
WOOD OR COMPOSITE WOOD EITHER
OF WHICH I THINK IS COMPATIBLE
.
SO PLAN THEY STILL GOT OVER
TWELVE FEET FROM THE SINGLE CAR
GARAGE AND HERE ARE SOME PHOTOS
FROM THE APPLICATION.
YOU CAN SEE THE GARAGE IN THAT
RIGHT AND PHOTO LOOPS.
ALL RIGHT.
IT IS ALSO A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT
.
ALL RIGHT.
WE CAN GO BACK TO ANY OF THESE
THAT YOU WANT TO LOOK AT RIGHT
FROM SECRETARY AND TO YOUR
STANDARDS.
NO ONE SAYS THAT A PROPERTY
WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN A NEW
USE THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL
CHANGE TO ITS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES SPACES AND
SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS.
NO.
TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC PROPERTY
WILL BE RETAINED AND PRESERVED.
THE REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURES, SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
A PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
FEATURES, FINISHES AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY SHALL
BE PRESERVED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHOULD BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
FINALLY, NO.10 SAYS NEW
ADDITIONS AND ADJACENT OR
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL
BE UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY WILL BE UNIMPAIRED
FROM GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO CONSTRUCT A
NEW ADDITION.
SO THERE'S THE LEAST POSSIBLE
LOSS OF HISTORIC MATERIALS SO
THAT CHARACTER DESIGN FEATURES
ARE NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED.
ALSO TO CONSIDER THE ATTACHED
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS IN TERMS
OF THE NEW USE AND THE
APPEARANCE OF OTHER BUILDINGS
IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD DESIGN MAY BE
CONTEMPORARY OR REFERENCE
DESIGN MOTIFS ON THE HISTORIC
BUILDING ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
LOCATE THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
EDITION AT THE REAR
INCONSPICUOUS SITE OF A
HISTORIC BUILDING AND LIMITING
ITS SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING.
ALSO DESIGNING NEW EDITIONS IN
A MANNER THAT MAKES CLEAR WHAT
IS HISTORIC AND WHAT IS NEW.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO ATTACH
A NEW EDITIONS THAT CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING ARE OBSCURED,
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED.
ALSO DESIGNING A NEW EDITIONS
THAT HAD SIZE SCALE IN RELATION
TO THE HISTORIC BUILDING OUT
OF PROPORTION THUS DIMINISHING
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY,
RETAIN AND PRESERVE BUILDINGS
AND THEIR FEATURES AS WELL AS
FEATURES OF THE SITE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING ITS
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER.
IT IS NOT RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE
A RADICALLY CHANGED BUILDINGS
AND THEIR FEATURES OR SITE
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER SO THAT AS A RESULT
THE CHARACTER IS DIMINISHED AND
THE END OF OUR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS IT IS APPROPRIATE TO
PLACE A NEW ADDITION ON A NON
CHARACTER DEFINING OR
INCONSPICUOUS ELEVATION AND
LIMIT THE SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY ALSO TO PLACE NEW
WALLS IN A DIFFERENT LANE FROM
THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN A
SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
HISTORIC FABRIC.
WOW I WENT A LITTLE CRAZY WITH
THE GUIDELINES HERE GUYS.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN
A NEW EDITION IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW AND TO LIMIT
THE SIZE AND SCALE OF THE
ADDITIONS IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDING SO IT
DOESN'T DIMINISH OR VIRTUALLY
OR VISUALLY OVERPOWER THE
BUILDING.
THE ADDITIONS FOOTPRINT SHOULD
EXCEED IN EITHER HALF OF THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT
NOR HALF OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING'S TOTAL FLOOR AREA AND
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO GO BACK UP HERE TO
THE DRAWINGS.
THESE ARE GOOD
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I ALREADY MENTIONED THAT THE
MUDROOM DOES NOT SHOW UP ON
SANDBORN MAPS.
THE HOUSE IS CURRENTLY TWELVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET WHICH
INCLUDES THE MUDROOM, THE
NINETEEN FORTY FOUR FLOOR AREA
WAS ONE THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY TWO SQUARE FEET.
THE ADDITION IS FIVE HUNDRED
FIFTY SQUARE FEET FOR TOTAL
INCREASE IN FLOOR AREA FORTY
NINE PERCENT AND THE FOOTPRINT
SIMILARLY IS INCREASING TWO
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE SQUARE
FEET FOR AN INCREASE OF FORTY
EIGHT PERCENT THESE THESE
INCREASES TO THE FLOOR AREA IN
THE FOOTPRINT COMPLY WITH THE
DESIGN GUIDELINES
PROPOSED
WINDOWS ARE FIBERGLASS WOOD
ANDERSON FOR ONE HUNDRED SERIES
DOUBLE HUNG WITH THREE LIGHTS
OVER ONE IN A REAR DOOR HAS ONE
FULL HEIGHT LIGHT WINDOW.
THE ADDITION IS HIGHLY
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
DESIGN BUT IS DISTINGUISHED AND
VISIBLE WAYS.
THE PROPORTIONS OF THE WINDOWS
ARE VARIED, TRIM DIFFERS FROM
THE ORIGINAL AND THE SIDING IS
SEMANTICIST LAPPE WITH A REVEAL
THAT MATCHES THE EXISTING
ALUMINUM THE SMOOTH CONCRETE
MASONRY UNIT FOUNDATION IS A
CRAWL NOT A BASEMENT.
SO STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
OF THE ADDITIONS AND BELIEVES
IT MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
SECRETARY'S GUIDELINES AND THE
NUMBER HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
LET ME I'M GOING TO STOP THE
CHAIR FOR A MOMENT AND LET THE
APPLICANTS INTO THE MEETING.
THAT WAS COOL.
YEAH, I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT
WAS.
ALL RIGHT, BRIAN.
I BELIEVE IT.
HI.
IS M PHILIP YOUR ARCHITECT?
YEAH, YEAH OK.
I WILL PROMOTE HIM INTO THE
MEETING AS WELL OK DID YOU
BRING ANYBODY ELSE THAT WE MR.
NOPE.
OK OK LET'S GIVE HIM A MINUTE
TO SHOW UP
ALL RIGHT.
TELL HIM WHAT I HAD BEEN SERVED
ON TO THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
COMMISSIONERS FORTNER AND ROSS
ON THE COMMITTEE.
WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS?
I LIKE TO SAY UM SO I DO AGREE
WITH STAFF'S ASSESSMENT OF THE
CONDITIONS UM THE THE OBVIOUSLY
ADDITION OBJECTIVELY SPEAKING
DOES MEET THE GUIDELINES
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADDITIONS.
IT'S GOING TO BE KIND OF WELL
ATTACHED TO THE REAR OF THE
HOME.
THIS WILL BE YOU KNOW, NOT
INVISIBLE FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT
AWAY BUT CERTAINLY HARD TO SEE
THE SCALE TO REALITY, ET CETERA
IS IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE
CHARACTER OF THE HISTORIC HOUSE
STAFFERS.
STAFF NOTED THE BIGGEST
QUESTION WILL BE DO WE AS A
COMMISSION CONSIDER THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE CHARACTER DEFINING
OR NOT LIKE THAT?
ASIDE FROM THAT, EVERYTHING
ELSE SEEM TO BE HUNKY DORY.
I AGREE.
OK, VERY GOOD.
YEAH.
SO NOW WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE UM YOUR MICROPHONE AND
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD AND YOU CAN
ADDRESS YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK YOU CAN
ADDRESS ANY QUESTIONS OR ADD
ANYTHING TO THE STAFF REPORT
PLEASE.
I'M SORRY BRIAN AND ALEXANDER
ALTSHULER WE LIVE AT FOUR
TWENTY TWO S SEVEN ST. ANN
ARBOR MICHIGAN FOUR EIGHT ONE
OH THREE JUST TO SAY I THINK
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
EDITION AS EVERYONE HAS BEEN
SAYING WE TRIED REALLY HARD TO
FOLLOW ALL THE CONDITIONS.
IT WOULD BE A SMOOTH PROCESS
FROM HERE ON OUT WORKING WITH
OUR ARCHITECTS I DON'T HAVE
MUCH ELSE TO ADD IF THERE'S ANY
QUESTIONS THERE'S A FIRST TIME
DOING THIS.
I DON'T KNOW.
LET ME KNOW WHAT I CAN SHARE.
THAT WAS PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
MIKE, DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD OR DO YOU WANT TO STATE
YOUR NAME?
I DON'T HAVE THE ADDRESS THE
MODERATOR I DON'T THINK IT WAS
PART OF THE ORIGINAL STRUCTURE
BUT WITHOUT THAT BEING A
REFERENCE I CAN'T SAY FOR
CERTAIN.
VERY GOOD.
OK, COMMISSIONERS DO YOU HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
?
HAVE A QUICK QUESTION.
JUST LOOKING AT THE DETAILED
DRAWINGS I CAN DRIVE THROUGH
THE WINDOWS AND ACTUALLY FROM
THE NOTES UM IT'S NOTING THAT
THE WINDOWS WILL BE WOOD
ALUMINUM CLOUD BUT THE STAFF
MENTIONED THAT THEY WERE MEANT
TO BE FIBERGLASS.
SO I'M CURIOUS AS TO WHICH AMY
WOOD OR FIBERGLASS?
>> WELL, I GUESS THE QUESTION
IS BUT IT WOULD IT MATTER TO
ANN ARBOR BECAUSE THERE'S SO
MANY DIFFERENT THINGS THAT
MARVIN ANDERSON POWER AND THEY
ALL HANDLE THE CLADDING A
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENTLY BUT IT
CERTAINLY WILL BE A VOLUME.
OK, SO YOU'RE ASKING FOR EITHER
FIBERGLASS OR WOOD WHICH SOUNDS
LIKE FIBERGLASS OR ALUMINUM
CLAD WOOD.
OK, YEAH.
SO IT'LL BE PLASTIC JUST NOT BY
ANYONE WILL BE STIMULATED BY
THE LIGHT RIGHT.
NO GRILLS BETWEEN THE GLASS.
THAT'S THE BIG YEAH IT CAN BE
ON THE INSIDE COMMANDS IT
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE BETWEEN PAIN
BETWEEN PANELS BUT WELL IDEALLY
THEY WOULD BE SIMULATE ON THE
EXTERIOR SURFACE OF THE GLASS
IDEALLY YEAH THEY NEED TO BE ON
THE EXTERIOR AND THE INTERIOR
WITH OR WITHOUT A SPACER
BETWEEN PANES OF GLASS.
OK THANK YOU SIR
.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
OK I HAVE A QUESTION I'M
WONDERING IF THE ARE YOU
REMOVING THE ALUMINUM SIDING
FROM THE REAR WHERE YOU'RE I I
ASSUME WILL BE WHERE YOU'RE
BUILDING THE ADDITION AND I
JUST I GUESS IT'S MAYBE MORE
OF A COMMENT AFTER THAT IS JUST
YOU KNOW YOU CAN EXAMINE THE
THE WINDOW TRIM AND CLADDING AT
THAT POINT I'M ASSUMING YOU
HAVEN'T DONE ANY DEMOLITION.
LOOK AT THE YEAH.
WHATEVER IS EXISTING OK, SO
ANYWAY THAT WOULD BE A POINT
OF YOU COULD EXAMINE IT AND
THEN YEAH I SUPPOSE IF YOU
LEARN ANYTHING NEW YOU YOU CAN
TALK TO CITY STAFF YOU KNOW
WHETHER OR NOT I DON'T KNOW
SOMETHING WOULD BE MORE
APPROPRIATE FOR THE I'M
THINKING ABOUT THE YEAH.
HOW YOU'RE DIFFERENTIATING THE
WINDOW TRIM AND IT'S JUST A
LITTLE UNUSUAL BECAUSE YOU'RE
MATCHING IT TO THE ARE YOU'RE
DIFFERENTIATING FROM THE
ALUMINUM SIDING BUT THAT IS
CLEARLY GOING TO BE DIFFERENT
THAN THE ORIGINAL TRIM.
I'M JUST GOING TO LEAVE THAT
COMMENT THERE AND YOU CAN TAKE
IT OR LEAVE IT AND THEN THIS IS
A QUESTION I'M CURIOUS ABOUT
THE CHIMNEY WE'VE HAD SEVERAL
CHIMNEYS COME THROUGH WHERE
THEY SAID THEY COULDN'T SAVE IT
SO WE'D LOVE TO HEAR JUST IF
YOU COULD VERY BRIEFLY AND VERY
CONCEPTUALLY WHAT ARE YOU DOING
TO SAVE THE CHIMNEY IN THE
ATTIC AND MAYBE WE CAN PASS ON
THIS GREAT INFORMATION TO OTHER
APPLICANTS.
I CAN ANSWER THAT.
THAT WAS JUST WE ARE STILL
USING THAT AND WE WE'RE NOT
THERE'S NO PLANS TO TAKE IT OUT
FOR THE FIRST OR SECOND FLOOR.
OUR HOT WATER HEATER VENTS OUT
TO US.
WELL, OK, VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
OK SO ANY OTHER QUESTIONS DOES
NOT LOOK LIKE IT.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING NOW SO I'LL OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT FOUR TWENTY TWO
S SEVEN PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE
MADE IN PERSON OR BY CALLING IN
USING THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED
ON THE MEETING AGENDA AND THE
VIDEO FEED TO ELECTRONICALLY
RAISE YOUR HAND AFTER DIALING
INTO THE MEETING PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE PRESENT HERE?
NO.
AND ANY CALLERS?
NO CALLERS.
I WILL NOT CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS
APPLICATION AND I'LL ASK IF A
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO MAKE
A MOTION COMMISSIONER
.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION FOR TWO TO S 7TH
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT A FIVE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY SQUARE FOOT
ONE AND THREE QUARTER STOREY
REAR EDITION ON A CRAWL SPACE
AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE, TWO, FIVE, NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AND BUILDING SITE AND
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
SUPPORT THAT IS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED THAT COMMISSIONER
EVERSON, IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION ON MOTION?
>> OK, WELL YEAH YOU DO.
WE NEED TO MODIFY IT TO CAPTURE
WHAT WE WERE TALKING ABOUT WITH
THE WINDOWS SOMETHING THAT I
GUESS IT DEPENDS ON WHAT'S IT
ACTUALLY IN THE IN THE DRAWINGS
THERE.
LET'S LOOK AT THE DRAWINGS IF
THE DRAWINGS CALL OUT A
SPECIFIC TYPE OF WINDOW WE CAN
ADD INTO THE MOTION EITHER TYPE
THAT YOU MENTIONED IN THE
DISCUSSION WHICH SEEMS TO DO
ANYWAY.
YEAH.
OR YOU COULD JUST DO THAT TO
THE WINDOW DETAIL
YOU SEE FOUR
HUNDRED SERIES PROFILES SO
WINDOWS IS WHAT OK I'M GLAD.
YEAH IT DOES SAY ON THE
DRAWINGS PROPOSED ANDERSON FOUR
HUNDRED SERIES PROFILES WHICH
ARE FIBERGLASS CLAD BUT THAT
WAS THERE WAS THERE ANOTHER
PLACE WHERE IT SAID SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
SO THESE DRAWINGS ARE
DISPLAYING LIKE WOOD THERE WOOD
WINDOW WITH THE CLADDING ITSELF
IS THE LIKE YEAH YEAH OK SO THE
EXTERIOR PIECE IT LOOKS A LOT
LIKE ALUMINUM OR VINYL CLADDING
GOCHA
SO MAKE SURE WE ADD TO
THE MOTION THAT THAT ALUMINUM
CLAD WINDOWS WOULD BE ALLOWABLE
.
WELL I'M JUST IT SAYS AS
PROPOSED AS I WAS SAYING OH I
THOUGHT YOU WERE DISCUSSING THE
APPLIED MONTAIGNE'S.
YEAH, THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT WAS
OH OK.
THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN DIFFERENT
NOW I'M SORRY I DIDN'T REALIZE
WHAT IS THERE CAN YOU SAY THE
COMMENT AGAIN PLEASE?
WELL DO WE NEED THERE WAS A
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE MOUNTAINS
THAT THEY NEED TO BE BOTH ON
BOTH IN INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR.
I DON'T THINK THEY NEED TO BE
INTERIOR.
THEY DO THEY NEED TO BE IN IN
THE INTERIOR IN THE NEXT YEAR
AND WE RECOMMEND THAT THERE'S A
SHADOW BAR IN BETWEEN BUT
THAT'S SORT OF OPTIONAL IF
THEY'RE INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR
APPLIED.
OK, SO I GUESS MY QUESTION IS
DO THOSE WINDOWS THAT THAT
WINDOW SERIES DOESN'T IT
DOESN'T SPECIFY THE I THINK YOU
SHOULD PUT IT IN
I GUESS I'LL
ASK THE APPLICANT ARE YOU OK
WITH INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR
DIVIDED LIGHTS?
YEAH, OK.
OK SO THEN SHOULD I GET INTO
THE MOTION WOULD YOU LIKE TO
HEAR STAFF'S PROPOSED AMENDED
MOTION AND THEN YOU COULD
DECIDE OK OK SO I MOVE ROTATION
ON A CRAWL SPACE ON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITION THAT
WINDOWS HAVE APPLIED INTERIOR
AND EXTERIOR MONTAIGNE'S AND
THEN AS CONDITIONS THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE SECOND WITH
OK SO I
GUESS WE SHOULD TALK ABOUT THE
THE THE MUDROOM ADDITION.
DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY COMMENTS
AND ADDITIONALLY LIKE DOES
ANYONE THINK THAT IT'S A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE AND
WOULD LIKE TO TALK ABOUT WHY
THEY THINK IT IS BUT I WOULD
JUST JUMP IN LIKE IN GETTING
BACK TO YOUR POINT AROUND IT
WOULD BE GREAT ESPECIALLY SINCE
THE ADDITION IS PROPOSED FOR
DEMOLITION TO HAVE SEEN WHAT
WAS GOING ON WITH THAT WALL
SURFACE UNDERNEATH THE ALUMINUM
TO UNDERSTAND AND BE 100
PERCENT SURE WHAT WAS GOING ON
BECAUSE FOR WHAT I SAW LOOKING
AT THE FOUNDATION AND THE
WINDOWS IN THE DOOR THAT THAT
WING IS HISTORIC AGE.
SO IN THE ABSENCE OF ANY OTHER
INFORMATION STATING OTHERWISE,
I DON'T REALLY YEAH.
I THINK IT'S NOT NOT HISTORIC.
YOU THINK IT'S MORE LIKELY
CONTRIBUTING?
YEAH.
I MEAN BUT I MEAN IS IT A
CHARACTER DEFINING ANGASTON?
WELL THAT'S THAT'S WHAT HIS
CHARACTER YEAH IT IS A STORY OK
THAT'S THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
IT IS HISTORIC AGE LIKE IT'S
SAID BASED ON WHAT I'M SAYING
SEEMS HAVE WE IN THE PAST LET'S
SAY YOU KNOW WHERE IT WAS CLEAR
A SIMILAR NON CONDITIONED
MINABLE KIND OF SHED ROOF WING
WAS SITTING THERE HAVE WE SAID
THAT'S CHARACTER TO ME?
NO, THAT'S THE QUESTION TOO IN
TERMS OF CONSISTENCY.
YES, WE WE'VE SAID THAT WHETHER
IT'S JUST A NON CONTRIBUTING
HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN THAT
YEAH.
IF IS YOU WOULD ARGUE IT'S A
NONCONTRIBUTING HISTORIC
STRUCTURE AND WE HAVE HAD THOSE
SITUATIONS WHERE IT JUST THAT
BIT OF THE HOUSE DOES NOT MATCH
LIKE THE LEVEL OF DETAIL AND
THE LEVEL OF QUALITY OF THE
REST OF THE HOUSE AND IT JUST
IS NOT CONTRIBUTING.
BUT IT'S HARD TO SAY WITH THE
CITING THERE IT WOULD BE MUCH
EASIER TO KNOW WITH THE SIDING
BECAUSE TO ME IT'S JUST LIKE
JUST A SCALE THAT DOESN'T
REALLY JIVE WITH THE REST
OF THE HOUSE.
EVERYTHING ELSE SEEMS TO BE
THERE.
I THINK IT'S THE SCALE I THINK
THE SHED ROOF KIND OF BRINGS IT
INTO QUESTION AND THEN ALSO I
THINK JUST THE WAY THAT IT
RETURNS VERY CLOSE TO THAT
WINDOW THAT'S EXISTING ALSO IF
THAT'S IS THAT A HISTORIC
WINDOW?
YEAH.
SO JUST SOMETHING ABOUT THE YOU
KNOW, IT'S LIKE A VERY CLOSE
WALL TO A WINDOW WHICH IN IN
MOST CASES IT WOULD BE VERY
UNUSUAL TO HAVE A HISTORIC
EDITION PINCHING A WINDOW LIKE
THAT SO TIGHTLY IT'S KIND
OF YEAH.
YEAH YEAH.
>> TO BE HONEST WALKING THROUGH
IT IT DEFINITELY FEELS LIKE IT
WAS AND NOT SEEING ALL THIS THE
HOUSE YEAH.
JUST WOULD HAVE BEEN GREAT TO
HAVE LIKE INTERIOR PHOTOS OR
SOMETHING TO BE ABLE TO YES.
TO SAY THAT A AGREE IS THERE ON
THE INSIDE IS THERE SIDING
EXPOSED.
I DON'T THINK YOU'RE OH I'M
SORRY WHICH I'M JUST TALKING TO
THE WRONG MIND NOW THERE'S
NOTHING BETTER THAN THIS WAS
AND TO MY DISMAY IT'S TOTALLY
DIFFERENT QUALITY YOU CAN IT'S
VERY NOTICEABLE AND THE SCALE
CEILING IS VERY LOW WHERE THE
REST OF THE HOUSE IS EIGHT FEET
SO RIGHT THIS IS TOTALLY
DIFFERENT STRUCTURE
.
OK, OH I HAD MY NOTES THAT
THERE IS A THERE IS A SKYLIGHT
PROPOSED IN THIS HOUSE I
BELIEVE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
I DIDN'T HEAR THE STAFF REPORT
.
OK, SO IT'S A SKYLIGHT PROPOSED
IN THE EXISTING PART OF THE
HOME RIGHT THERE.
IT'S I THINK IN AN IN AN
APPROPRIATE SPOT BEHIND THE
DORMER THERE.
BUT JUST WANTED TO KNOW THAT
AND SEE IF THERE'S ANY
DISCUSSION ON THE SKYLIGHT.
NO, YOU CAN SEE FROM THE LOWER
TO THE BACK OF THE HOUSE AT
ALL.
YEAH I PICKED A GOOD SPOT FOR
IT.
YEAH.
OK ANY OTHER COMMENTS DOES NOT
LOOK LIKE IT SO WE SHALL GO TO
A VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY YES
YES YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY
NO NO NO THAT WAS OK IS ENOUGH
THAT WAS ONE NO OK THE MOTION
CARRIES THREE WON YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.
YOU TOO.
IT IS OK WE'LL MOVE ON NOW TO F
TWO TO 15 TO 17 S MAIN STREET
IS THAT PLEASE GIVE US THE
STAFF REPORT OK ANYONE SECOND
HAND OK TAKE YOUR TIME YOU'LL
SEE THAT YOU HAVE HAND OUT
OF INFORMATION THAT WAS
SUBMITTED AT ONE THIRTY TODAY
THAT INCLUDES A REVISIONS TO
THIS PROJECT FROM THE WAY IT
WAS PROPOSED I HAVEN'T LOOKED I
GLANCED THROUGH I THINK I HAVE
A GRIP ON THE THREE SORT
OF AREAS THAT THEY WANT TO
MODIFY BUT I HAVE NO STAFF
COMMENTS ON THESE CHANGES.
IT'S LIKELY THAT THE SAME
SECRETARY TO YOUR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES WILL APPLY.
SO I'M GOING TO GO THROUGH
THOSE IT'S IT'S IN SHORT THERE
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS AT THE
FIRST SITE VISIT THAT THEY ARE
PROPOSING TO REPLICATE THE
SECOND AND THIRD FLOOR WINDOWS
WHICH HAVE ARCH TOPS OR BOTTOMS
AND THAT THAT'S CLARIFIED IN
THIS PACKET WHICH IS GREAT.
THEY'RE JUST WOOD REPLICAS.
THEN ANOTHER THING IS THAT THE
STORE FRONTS HAVE BEEN CHANGED
TO A NEW DESIGN AND THEN THE
FOURTH AND FIFTH STOREY
ADDITIONS HAVE A NEW DESIGN
WITH THE FIFTH FLOOR BEING SET
BACK MORE AND A SEPARATE SCREEN
TO HELP MINIMIZE THE VIEW ON
THE TOP OF THE FIFTH FLOOR.
SO IT'S UP TO THE COMMISSION
WHAT YOU GUYS WANT TO DO WITH
US, YOU'RE GETTING IT COLD.
YOU HAVEN'T HAD A CHANCE TO
REVIEW YOUR YOU DON'T NEED ANY
STAFF RECOMMENDATION OR REVIEW
SO YOU COULD JUST PROCEED WITH
IT AND REVIEW OFF OF THESE
PAPER COPIES.
YOU COULD POSTPONE IT TO NEXT
MONTH.
ALSO SINCE THIS IS NEW
INFORMATION, THE 60 DAY CLOCK
STARTS OVER AGAIN SO YOU'RE NOT
IN DANGER OF RUNNING OUT
OF TIME OR ANYTHING
OR YOU
COULD LOOK AT IT.
I DON'T KNOW.
YOU MIGHT WANT TO THINK ABOUT
IT AS THOSE THREE DIFFERENT
AREAS ANYWAY.
THE WINDOW REPLICAS, THE STORE
FRONT AND THE REST OF THE
BUILDING.
WHAT DIDN'T CHANGE IS THAT ONLY
THE FACADE WOULD BE LEFT OF THE
BUILDING AND THE REMAINDER
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING WOULD
BE DEMOLISHED AND REPLACED WITH
THE NEW FIVE STORY BUILDING
BEHIND THE FRONT FACADE.
SO IN THAT RESPECT MY STAFF
RECOMMENDATION REMAINS THE SAME
BECAUSE I DO BELIEVE THAT
DEMOLISHING THE BUILDING
LEAVING ONLY FACADE DOESN'T
MEET THE STANDARDS OR THE
GUIDELINES OR THE THE OTHER
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
DOCUMENTS.
BUT LET ME GO THROUGH THE
SLIDES I HAVE FIRST.
YEAH, I'M GETTING AHEAD
OF MYSELF JUST ONE SECOND.
OK,
OK NOT QUITE THERE YOU 215
AND 217 S MAIN STREET THE LAST
TENANTS ON THE LEFT INSIDE TO
FIFTEEN WAS URBAN JEWELERS AND
ON THE RIGHT WAS FOOTPRINT'S.
URBAN JEWELERS HAD THAT FUNKY
GLASS BLACK WALL STORE FRONT A
VERY MOD FOOTPRINT'S A MUCH
MORE TRADITIONAL PROPORTION
STORE FRONT YOU CAN SEE ON THE
SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS FROM
THESE PHOTOS THAT THEY'RE THERE
AREN'T CURRENTLY ANY WINDOWS.
THOSE ARE STORM WELL ACTUALLY
THERE MIGHT BE WINDOWS ON THE
THE SECOND FLOOR BUT ON THE
THIRD IT'S ALL STORM WINDOWS.
THERE WAS A FIRE ON THE THIRD
FLOOR AND THE SASHES JUST ARE A
CHARGED MESS.
WE SAW ONE OF THEM AT THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE MEETING AND
I'VE GOT A PICTURE OF IT IN
THERE.
SOME MORE PICTURES IN THE
PACKET, THE BUILDING I SHOULD
TELL YOU THE HISTORY OF THE
BUILDING LET'S SEE IT WAS
CONSTRUCTED EIGHTEEN SIXTY SIX.
IT'S COMMERCIAL ITALIANATE IN
STYLE WITH THREE FLOORS ARCHTOP
WINDOWS ROUND AND SEGMENTED
ARCHES AND STONE TRIM THE
ORIGINAL CORNICE IS MISSING AND
THE ORIGINAL OCCUPANT OF TWO
FIFTEEN WAS RICHARD AND FORBES'
MILLENARY AND TWO SEVENTEEN WAS
CHARLES PENTEL DRY GOODS.
THERE WAS A WORKING SESSION
HELD IN TWENTY NINETEEN TO
DISCUSS THE ADDITION OF THREE
STORIES ON TOP OF THIS THREE
STORY BUILDING BUT NO
APPLICATION WAS MADE AFTER THAT
WORKING SESSION ON THE EAST
SIDE OF SOUTH MAIN STREET
BETWEEN EAST WASHINGTON AND
EAST LIBERTY STREET AND YOU
SEEKING APPROVAL TO DEMOLISH
ALL OF THE FRONT FACADE OF THE
EXISTING THREE STOREY BUILDING
AND CONSTRUCT A NEW FIVE STORY
BUILDING BEHIND THE FRONT
FACADE.
REPLACE THE TWO STOREFRONTS
WITH NEW FRONT SYSTEMS AND
REPLACE THE SECOND THIRD FLOOR
WINDOWS WITH NEW WINDOWS.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS THE REAR OF THE
BUILDING TO FIFTEEN IS JUST THE
THE ORIGINAL REAR WITH NO
ADDITIONS TO IT TO SEVENTEEN.
HAS THIS PIECE OVER HERE THAT
WAS BUILT MUCH LATER?
I DO NOT KNOW HOW LATE BUT THIS
IS NOT A STRUCTURAL BRICK AND I
COULD PROBABLY FIGURE THAT OUT
FAIRLY QUICKLY IF ANYBODY
WANTED TO KNOW THE AGE OF THIS
WING YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE
AREN'T ORIGINAL WINDOWS ON THE
BACK HERE.
THERE'S A LOT OF GLASS BLACK
AND SOME REPLACEMENT WINDOWS
BUT THE WINDOW OPENINGS SEEM TO
MATCH UP THE SAME WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE FIRST FLOOR
WHERE THIS USED TO BE A TALLER
WINDOW AND THERE WAS A TALLER
WINDOW OVER HERE WITH SOMETHING
IN BETWEEN.
IT LOOKS LIKE THIS ONE WENT
DOWN TO ALL LAY DOWN TO GRADE
ALMOST.
HERE'S ONE OF THE WINDOWS THAT
SAM PULLED OUT FOR US AT THE
SITE VISIT.
YOU CAN LITERALLY SEE THE WORDS
TURN TO CHARCOAL.
WE DID CONFIRM THAT THERE WAS A
LITTLE TINY MOUNTAIN ACROSS THE
MIDDLE HERE THAT WASN'T
PERFECTLY OBVIOUS TO ME FROM
THE OLD HISTORIC PHOTOS.
SO THAT'S GOOD TO KNOW THAT
THESE WERE FOR OVER FOUR PANE
WINDOWS AND THE SASHES ARE BIG.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS JUST ONE
OF THE TWO SASHES AND YOU CAN
SEE HOW TALL IS.
ALL RIGHT.
I AM NOT GOING TO SHOW YOU
THESE DRAWINGS BECAUSE MOST
OF THEM HAVE BEEN REPLACED
THOUGH MAYBE NOT COMPLETELY SO
THIS IS THE EXISTING EAST
ELEVATION ON THE REAR.
THIS IS THE STUFF THAT YOU
CAN'T SEE FROM THE ALLEY
BECAUSE IT'S UP ABOVE THAT
LITTLE ADDITION EXISTING FIRST
FLOOR TO SIDE BY SIDE SPACES,
SECOND FLOOR AS A BUNCH
OF CUBICLES.
THIRD FLOOR IS JUST OPEN.
IT IS NOT IN USE.
THERE'S THERE'S A CONSTRUCTION
FEASIBILITY PLAN THAT I'D LIKE
THE APPLICANTS TO GO THROUGH
WITH YOU IN A LITTLE MORE
DETAIL.
THERE ARE DRAWINGS THAT
SUPPORTED THAT I'LL BE ABLE TO
SHOW YOU AS THEY'RE TALKING.
THESE PROSPECTIVE DRAWINGS HAVE
CHANGED AND THE STOREFRONTS
HAVE CHANGED.
ALL RIGHT.
LET ME GO THROUGH THE STANDARDS
AND THE GUIDELINES AND THEN WE
CAN GET BACK INTO THE PACKING
MATERIALS.
NO ONE FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARD SAYS
THAT PROPERTY WILL BE USED AS
IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN
A NEW USE THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL
CHANGE DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS,
FEATURES SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
I READ NO TO DO YOU A FEW
MINUTES AGO BEFORE THE FIRST
APPLICATION I READ NUMBER FIVE
NO.
SIX IS DETERIORATED HISTORIC
FEATURES WILL BE REPAIRED
RATHER THAN REPLACED WHERE THE
SEVERITY OF DETERIORATING AND
REQUIRES REPLACEMENT OF A
DISTINCTIVE FEATURE.
THE NEW FEATURE WILL MATCH THE
OLD AND DESIGN COLOR TEXTURE
AND WHERE POSSIBLE MATERIALS
REPLACEMENT OF MISSING FEATURES
WILL BE SUBSTANTIATED BY
DOCUMENTARY AND PHYSICAL
EVIDENCE.
I READ NINE TO YOU ABOUT THE
COMPATIBILITY OF NEW ADDITIONS
AND EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS AND I
READ TEND TO YOU ABOUT NEW
CONSTRUCTION SO FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR IS
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS,
ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS FOR A
NEW USE.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN
ADDITIONS TO ROOFS SUCH AS
RESIDENTIAL OFFICE OR STORAGE
SPACES, ELEVATOR HOUSINGS
DECKS, TERRACES, DORMERS OR
SKYLIGHTS WHEN REQUIRED BY THE
NEW USE OF THEIR INCONSPICUOUS
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
AND DO NOT DAMAGE OR OBSCURE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES.
THIS IS NOT TECHNICALLY AN
ADDITION BECAUSE A NEW BUILDING
BEHIND THE FRONT FACADE BUT
FROM A VISUAL POINT, FROM A
VISUAL STANDPOINT WHAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT SHOULD STILL FOLLOW
MANY OF THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS RECOMMENDED IS
CONSIDERING AN ATTACHED
EXTERIOR EDITION BOTH IN TERMS
OF THE NEW USE AND THE
APPEARANCE OF OTHER BUILDINGS
IN THE DISTRICT.
THE NEW WORK MAY BE
CONTEMPORARY OR REFERENCE
DESIGN.
MOTIFS FROM THE HISTORIC
BUILDING SHOULD ALWAYS BE
CLEARLY DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE
HISTORIC BUILDING BE COMPATIBLE
IN TERMS OF MASS MATERIALS,
RELATIONSHIP OF SOLIDS TO VOIDS
IN COLOR ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGNING ADDITIONAL STORIES
REQUIRED FOR THE NEW USE THAT
ARE SET BACK FROM THE WALL
PLAIN AND ARE AS INCONSPICUOUS
AS POSSIBLE VIEWED FROM THE
STREET NOT RECOMMENDED AS
DESIGNING NEW ADDITIONS THAT
ITS SIZE AND SCALE IN RELATION
TO THE HISTORIC BUILDING ARE
OUT OF PROPORTION, THUS
DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER.
IT'S ALSO RECOMMENDED FOR
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING, DESIGNING AND
CONSTRUCTING NEW ADDITIONS TO
HISTORIC BUILDINGS WHEN
REQUIRED BY THE NEW USE, NEWARK
SHOULD BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
SETTING IN TERMS OF SIZE SCALE
DESIGN, MATERIAL COLOR, TEXTURE
.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION INTO
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT'S
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
WITHIN THE SETTING FOR
STOREFRONTS RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCT A NEW
STOREFRONT WHEN THE HISTORIC
STOREFRONT IS COMPLETELY
MISSING.
NEITHER OF THESE ARE HISTORIC
STOREFRONTS MAYBE AN ACCURATE
RESTORATION USING HISTORICAL,
PICTORIAL AND PHYSICAL
DOCUMENTATION OR MAYBE A NEW
DESIGN THAT'S COMPATIBLE WITH
THE SIZE SCALE MATERIAL OF THE
HISTORIC BUILDING.
NEW DESIGN SHOULD BE LEFT WITH
THE FACADE AND BE KEPT AS
SIMPLE AS POSSIBLE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO CREATE
A FALSE HISTORICAL APPEARANCE
BECAUSE THE REPLACE STORE FRONT
IS BASED ON INSUFFICIENT
HISTORICAL PICTORIAL AND
PHYSICAL DOCUMENTATION FOR
WINDOWS IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
REPLACE AN ENTIRE WINDOW THAT'S
TOO DETERIORATED TO REPAIR
USING THE SAME SASH AND PANE
CONFIGURATION AND OTHER DESIGN
DETAILS USING THE SAME KIND
OF MATERIALS NOT TECHNICALLY OR
ECONOMICALLY FEASIBLE A
COMPATIBLE SUBSTITUTE MATERIAL
MAY BE CONSIDERED IT'S NOT
RECOMMENDED TO REMOVE OR
RADICALLY CHANGE WINDOWS WHICH
ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER SO
THAT AS A RESULT THE CHARACTER
IS DIMINISHED FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION
UNDER THE BUILDING SITE WHICH
IS VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE IN
TERMS OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR AND TEXTURE OR
WHICH DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE.
IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
REMOVE OR RADICALLY CHANGE
MASONRY FEATURES WHICH ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SO THAT AS A
RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED.
IT'S ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED TO
REPLACE OR REBUILD A MAJOR
PORTION OF EXTERIOR MASONRY
WALLS THAT COULD BE REPAIRED SO
THAT AS A RESULT THE BUILDING
IS NO LONGER HISTORIC AND IS
ESSENTIALLY NEW CONSTRUCTION
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR SETTING
NOT RECOMMENDED INTRODUCING A
NEW CONSTRUCTION INTO HISTORIC
DISTRICTS THAT IS VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT DESTROYS
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN
THE SETTING OF ANOTHER HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
NEW CONSTRUCTION IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO BUILD BUILDING
MARSING SHOULD FIT WITH
EXISTING HISTORIC PATTERNS AND
BUILDINGS SHOULD NOT BE IMMENSE
IN SCALE OR GREATLY CONTRAST
WITH THE EXISTING SCALE ON A
BLOCK OR IN THE SURROUNDING
HISTORIC DISTRICT FROM THE
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
PRESERVATION 314 FOR NEW
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC
BUILDINGS THEY RECOMMEND TO
PRESERVE SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC
MATERIALS FEATURES AND FOR THEM
TO BE COMPATIBLE AND TO BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE
HISTORIC BUILDING.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S IT FOR THE STANDARDS
GUIDELINES.
LET ME SEE IF THERE'S ANYTHING
ELSE THAT I SHOULD SHARE WITH
YOU AND THEN YOU CAN DECIDE
WHAT HOW YOU WOULD LIKE TO
PROCEED THOUGH I GUESS YOU HAVE
TO HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING
PRESERVATION PRE 14 GOES ON TO
SAY SOMETHING THAT I DIDN'T GET
ONTO A SLIDE HERE THAT
GENERALLY A ROOFTOP EDITION
SHOULD NOT BE MORE THAN ONE
STORY IN HEIGHT TO MINIMIZE ITS
VISIBILITY AND ITS IMPACT ON
THE PROPORTION AND PROFILE
OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING.
A ROOFTOP EDITION SHOULD ALMOST
ALWAYS BE SET BACK AT LEAST ONE
FULL BAY FROM THE PRIMARY
ELEVATION OF THE BUILDING AS
WELL AS FROM THE OTHER
ELEVATIONS IF THE BUILDING IS
FREESTANDING OR HIGHLY VISIBLE
LATER ON PAGE 12 IT SAYS
CONSTRUCTING ANOTHER FLOOR ON
TOP OF A SMALL ONE, TWO OR
THREE STOREY BUILDING IS SELDOM
APPROPRIATE FOR BUILDINGS
OF THIS SIZE AS IT WAS
MEASURABLY ALTER THE BUILDING'S
PROPORTIONS AND PROFILE AND
NEGATIVELY IMPACT ITS HISTORIC
CHARACTER.
YOU MAY RECALL THAT WE HAD A
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE CORNER
OF MAIN AND LIBERTY RECENTLY
ABOUT ADDING STORIES.
WE USED THIS PRESERVATION BRIEF
QUITE HEAVILY FOR THAT
ITALIANATE COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS
TYPICALLY HAVE FLAT ROOFS IN
ORDER TO RETAIN A SENSE OF A
FLAT STORY THREE STOREY FLAT
ROOF BUILDING STAFF BELIEVES
ANY ADDITIONAL FLOOR MUST BE
PUSHED BACK SIGNIFICANTLY FROM
THE EXISTING FRONT PARAPET AND
STAFF DID ADVISE THE APPLICANT
A PRELIMINARY MEETING NOT TO
PROPOSE DEMOLISHING THE
BUILDING BEHIND THE FRONT
FACADE BECAUSE IT'S NOT
APPROPRIATE AND NOT IN KEEPING
WITH THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
NUMBERS ONE, TWO, FIVE, SIX,
NINE OR TEN AS HAS PREVIOUSLY
PRESENTED, THE TWO ADDITIONAL
STORIES WERE TOO CLOSE TO THE
FRONT FACADE.
I HAVEN'T LOOKED AT THE NEW
ONES PRESERVATION BRIEF 14
RECOMMENDS A FULL BAY WHICH
WOULD BE APPROXIMATELY TWENTY
FIVE FEET.
I DON'T KNOW HOW DEEP THIS LOT
IS THE THE WINDOWS I AM
COMPLETELY IN FAVOR
OF REPLICATING ON THE FRONT
FACADE THAT WOULD BE WONDERFUL
AND IN FACT I COULD EVEN STAFF
APPROVE THAT WORK IF WE NEED TO
DO AT ANY POINT AND I'M NOT
GOING TO MAKE ANY COMMENTS ON
THE STOREFRONT SINCE THAT
DESIGN HAS BEEN CHANGED.
SO THAT'S IT REPORT OK THANK
YOU.
WELL LET'S I SUPPOSE WE SHOULD
MOVE THROUGH THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE AND THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND THEN WE CAN HAVE A
DISCUSSION ON HOW TO TAKE IT
FROM THERE.
BUT LET'S LET'S GO WITH THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE COMMISSIONERS
FOR MACROSS.
COULD YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION?
YEAH, I DON'T THINK I HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD.
PICTURES ARE PRETTY ACCURATE.
WE WERE ABLE TO GET BEHA I MEAN
SEE THE STOREFRONTS BEHIND THE
BOARDED UP PART BUT I THINK WE
ALL REMEMBER WHAT THOSE LOOK
LIKE AND AND COULD SEE THE THE
BACK AND THE CHARCOAL REMAINING
WINDOW FRAMES.
WE DIDN'T HAVE ANY ACCESS TO
THE INSIDE OF THE BUILDINGS.
I CAN'T SPEAK TO THAT WHICH WAS
YEAH.
I MEAN UNFORTUNATELY AS
COMMISSIONER WERNER NOTED
BECAUSE OF THE KIND
OF INCLOSING OF THE FIRST STORY
WE DID, WE WERE ABLE TO GO
INSIDE AND LOOK AT THE
STOREFRONTS BUT JUST KIND
OF SEEING IT FROM THE STREET WE
WEREN'T ABLE TO SEE I MEAN IT'S
WHEN WE SAW YEAH.
I MEAN I THINK THIS IS GOING TO
BE MORE AROUND TO DISCUSSION
AND YOU KNOW, WHAT WE OBSERVED
I MEAN WE DID OBSERVE THAT THE
WINDOWS WERE A WINDOW AND DID
SEE THAT IT WAS IT WAS CHARRED
THE WINDOWS THAT WERE REMOVED I
GUESS IT WAS TYPICAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE WINDOWS
THAT WERE ON THE THIRD FLOOR.
SO THEY DID APPEAR TO BE
CERTAINLY DETERIORATED REPAIR.
YEAH.
OK, SO OK, SO NOW WE'RE GOING
TO LET THE APPLICANT SPEAK ER
WOULD YOU GO PUBLIC.
WELL ARE YOU GOING TO DO THE
PUBLIC HEARING AFTER THAT
ACTUALLY IS THE ORDER RIGHT SO
YOU GUYS HAVE TO DECIDE IF YOU
WANT TO KEEP GOING OK BECAUSE
YOU'RE GOING TO WANT THE
APPLICANTS TO EXPLAIN WHAT
THEY'RE DOING IF YOU WANT TO
CONSIDER IT TONIGHT.
OK WELL I'M HAPPY TO LET'S TALK
ABOUT THAT RIGHT NOW.
IF ANYONE HAS A STRONG OPINION
OR LET'S JUST HEAR A DISCUSSION
ABOUT KIND OF WHERE WE'RE AT
WITH THIS HEARING BEFORE WE
MOVE FORWARD, CAN I JUST ASK
THE POINT OF CLARIFICATION
DISCUSSING WHETHER OR NOT WE'RE
ACCEPTING JUST THE SUPPLEMENTAL
INFORMATION OR THE APPLICATION
AS A WHOLE?
I THERE'S A FEW OPTIONS, RIGHT?
YEAH, THERE'S IT BASICALLY IS
YEAH.
DO WE ACCEPT THIS OR DO WE NOT
ACCEPT THIS AND IF YOU DON'T
ACCEPT IT, I DON'T THINK
THERE'S ANY POINT IN
CONSIDERING WHAT'S BEEN
SUBMITTED ALREADY ANYWAY.
YEAH SO SO YEAH SO I GUESS THE
QUESTION IS DO WE HAVE DO WE
FEEL THAT THIS BY FLIPPING
THROUGH THIS AND THE APPLICANT
EXPLAINING STUFF THAT WE'RE
GOING TO BE 100 PERCENT ON NO
YEAH I GUESS WE'RE WE'RE WE'RE
STAMMERING A BIT BECAUSE WE GOT
THIS INFORMATION SO LATE AND
IT'S IT'S CLEAR THAT YOU SAW
THE STAFF UPDATES AS WE HAVE IN
RESPONSE TO THE STAFF REPORTS
THAT THE POINT THE STAFF REPORT
IS REALLY FOR US TO TO REVIEW
ALL THE INFORMATION FOR THE
WEEK.
IT'S NICE IF PEOPLE MAKE A
QUICK CHANGE TO SOMETHING OR
CLARIFICATION BUT A FULL A FULL
CHANGE IS IS A LOT TO HANDLE
BECAUSE WE'VE GOT A LOT IT'S
NOT JUST ONE HEARING.
IT'S MANY HEARINGS AND WE'VE
GOT A LOT TO REVIEW BEFORE THE
MEETING.
SO THAT'S WHY WE I MEAN MY
PERSONAL OPINION IS I'M NOT I'M
NOT SO COMFORTABLE GOING
THROUGH THE STORE FRONT CHANGES
WHICH I THINK ARE VERY
IMPORTANT WHEN I LOOKED AT
QUICKLY IT SEEMED LIKE A STEP
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
BUT THERE'S A LOT THERE'S A LOT
THERE AND IT SOUNDS LIKE IF WE
DO POSTPONE IT THEN WE CAN
STILL GET THE WINDOWS STAFF
APPROVED SO THAT AT LEAST WILL
MOVE THINGS FORWARD AND THEN
OBVIOUSLY THE WHOLE DISCUSSION
ABOUT THE REST OF THE BUILDING
TO ME THAT'S AN EVEN LONGER AND
MORE IN-DEPTH AND MORE
COMPLICATED DISCUSSION THAN THE
STOREFRONT AND IT'S THE SAME
ISSUE THERE.
WE'RE JUST GETTING THIS
INFORMATION PRETTY MUCH RIGHT
NOW.
SO I GUESS I'M LEANING TOWARDS
POSTPONING BUT IF IF ANYONE HAS
A YOU KNOW, A DIFFERENT IDEA
THAT WE CAN I FEEL LIKE IT WILL
BE A BIT OF DESIGNING ON THE
FLY HERE WHICH WE DON'T LIKE TO
DO AND POSTPONE.
OK, UM I AGREE BECAUSE AS I'M
JUST KIND OF FLIPPING THROUGH
HERE IT'S NOT ONLY THE STORE
FRONT ON HISTORIC BUILDING
THAT'S BEEN CHANGED WHEN I'M
LOOKING AT ACTUALLY THE
ADDITION CALLED THE ADDITION
PIECE LIKE THE BALCONIES ARE
DIFFERENT.
THE MATUTE CLADDING IS YEAH
THERE'S JUST A LOT GOING ON
HERE THAT'S KIND OF SWITCHED
OFF.
IT'S NOT JUST KIND OF ONE SMALL
ELEMENT.
OK, AND TO BE FAIR TO THE
APPLICANT, I THINK WE NEED TO
FULLY UNDERSTAND WHAT'S GOING
ON THAT WE CAN HAVE A FULLY
FLESHED OUT DISCUSSION.
OK, YEAH I AGREE.
I AGREE.
WE LIKE TO KIND OF ROLL WITH IT
WHEN WE CAN AND HELP OUT TO
REPLICATE IT MAYBE MAKES A LATE
DECISION OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
BUT THIS IS SUCH IMPORTANT
PROPERTY AND THE CHANGES ARE
JUST I FEEL LIKE THERE'S A LOT
OF DISCOMFORT UP HERE RIGHT
NOW.
IT REALLY DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
MOVE FORWARD, YOU KNOW, WITHOUT
FEELING LIKE WE REALLY
UNDERSTAND WHAT WE NEED TO
UNDERSTAND.
SO I IT SOUNDS LIKE I JUST WANT
TO ADD TO THAT I THINK THAT
THERE'S ALSO AND THIS IS MAYBE
TAKING IT A STEP FURTHER
THERE'S A I THINK SOME LACKING
INFORMATION ABOUT THE FULL
REBUILD OF THE MATERIALITY AND
THE REAR OF THE BUILDING.
SO I THINK THERE'S SOME MISSING
INFORMATION IN THE APPLICATION
OVERALL.
I ALSO THIS IS REALLY A
DEMOLITION PROPOSAL FIRST AND A
REBUILD PROPOSAL SECOND.
SO I THINK THEY JUST HAVE
CORRECT ME IF I'M GOING TOO FAR
WITH THIS BUT I THINK THAT AND
IT'S OWN RIGHT.
IT'S IT NEEDS TO BE REVIEWED IS
IS APPROPRIATE TO DEMOLISH IF
IF AN APPLICATION FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
IS DENIED THEN THE APPLICANT
MAY MOVE ON AND REQUEST A
NOTICE TO PROCEED WHICH WOULD
BE THE WAY THAT YOU APPROVE
INAPPROPRIATE WORK.
YOU KNOW THAT'S UP TO THEM IF
IT'S JUST THE SAME PROPOSAL ALL
OVER AGAIN THAT'S BEEN DENIED,
IT'S NOT LIKELY TO BE APPROVED
BUT THAT IS THE ONLY WAY IN
WHICH YOU CAN GET SOMETHING
APPROVED THAT'S NOT APPROPRIATE
FOR THE BUILDING.
OK, CAN I ASK A CLARIFICATION
CLARIFYING QUESTION YOU STAFF
YOU MENTIONED YOU LISTED THE
THE STANDARDS FOR WHY IT IS NOT
APPROPRIATE TO REMOVE
EVERYTHING EXCEPT THE FACADE
AND IT WAS LIKE BASICALLY EVERY
STANDARD BUT BUT CAN YOU GO ONE
STEP LOWER AND JUST SAY IN
WORDS WHY IT IS NOT APPROPRIATE
ACCORDING TO THIS INSTEAD YOU
AGREED BUT IS THERE LIKE A
HIGHER LEVEL KIND OF A SUMMARY
OF WHY THAT'S NOT APPROPRIATE
AS WELL?
THE WHOLE GOAL OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION IS TO KEEP
ORIGINAL MATERIALS ON AN INTACT
BUILDING AND ALL OF YOUR
GUIDELINES ARE DESIGNED AROUND
KEEPING THAT BUILDING INTACT
AND NOT OVERWHELMING THAT
BUILDING
HARMING THEIR BUILDING
IN THE WAY THAT IT'S ATTACHED
TO IT.
SO
PROPOSING TO DEMOLISH A
BUILDING IT JUST IT DOESN'T
MEET ANY OF THE STANDARDS OR
GUIDELINES.
I MEAN THERE WERE GUIDELINES IN
THERE FOR MASONRY THAT SAID
TEARING DOWN THE BUILDING AND
REPLACING MOST OF THE MASONRY
TO EFFECTIVELY HAVE A NEW
BUILDING WAS NOT APPROPRIATE.
I THINK THAT THAT ONE WAS THE
GUIDELINE THAT THE CLEAREST AND
IF YOU'RE GOING TO ASK FOR THIS
TO COME BACK A RESTRUCK SURE.
THE STAFF REPORT AND I'LL TALK
TO THE APPLICANTS ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, PUTTING TOGETHER A NEW
PACKAGE WITH THE NEW DRAWINGS
MESHED WITH THE EXISTING
DRAWINGS THAT STILL APPLY
GETTING SOME MORE INFORMATION
ABOUT THE MATERIALITY IN THE
BACK BUT THEN WHEN I REDO THE
STAFF REPORT I'LL I'LL TALK
SPECIFICALLY TO THE DIFFERENT
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES AND
HOW THOSE AFFECT ARE AFFECTED
BY THIS PROJECT SO THAT IT'S A
LITTLE EASIER FOR YOU GUYS TO
PASS OUT MY PROFESSIONAL
OPINION OF WHAT'S GOING ON HERE
.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
YEAH.
YEAH I THINK THAT'S
ENLIGHTENING FOR THE APPLICANT
AS WELL.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS BEFORE WE
POSTPONE IT SO SO WE DID WE DID
PUBLISH THE HEARING SO WE HAVE
TO HAVE THE PUBLIC AND THEN WE
BOTH COME OK I WOULD JUST ASK
THAT THE APPLICANTS YOU KNOW,
TAKE A FEW MINUTES TO TALK
BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO COME
BACK AND DO THIS ALL OVER AGAIN
LIKELY NEXT MONTH AND NOT YOU
NOT TAKE TWENTY MINUTES TO
TALK.
OK, SO THE APPLICANTS ARE GOING
TO GO UP THEN WE'RE GOING TO DO
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN
WELL AREN'T THEY THE FIRST
SPEAKERS IN THE PUBLIC HEARING
ARE THEY.
YEAH OK VERY GOOD BUT DO I OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FIRST OR DO
I.
YES TO THE AFGHANS PLEASE COME
OUT SORRY.
A DIFFERENCE OF TERMS THEY ARE
PART OF THE PUBLIC WHOEVER'S ON
THE APPLICATION WOULD LIKE TO
COME UP AND PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
YEAH LET ME SAY CAFE WITH KBG
CONSTRUCTION BECAUSE BIG
ARCHITECTURE I'M GOING TO TAKE
IT AND I WILL BE TALKING ABOUT
THE RERACKED MASONRY WALL AND
THE COMPLEXITY OF THE PROJECT
AND THEN DEMOLISH SO
COMMISSIONER CAN HAVE A BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING WITH THE PROJECT IF
WE ARE NOT DEMOLISHING THE
BUILDING WE HAVE REMOVING THE
BACK WALL AND WE'RE ADDING TWO
FLOORS ON TOP.
OUR GOAL IS TO MAINTAIN THE
FRONT GLASS WALL AND TO DO THAT
IT TAKES A MAJOR SHORING IN
PLACE TO MAKE SURE THAT WALL
STAYS IN PLACE.
IF YOU HAVE I WANT TO SHARE
THAT THIS IS WHERE WE ARE
STRUCTURAL ENGINEER TODAY WHO
WORK WITH US ON MANY, MANY
PROJECTS AND HE PROVIDED US ON
PROPERTY IN ORDER TO THE SAME
THING.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THESE,
THAT'S THE TOP OF THE ROOF ON
THE WEST WHICH IS PRETTY MUCH
THE PERFECT AND JUST GOING TO
THE SERIOUS BUSINESS BUILDING
THIS WALL THAT'S STORY ON
BUDGET AND THAT THAT WALL IS
THE BACKWELL.
THE FIRST FIVE BRAZING GOES
FROM THE PARAPET ALL THE DOWN
TO THE SIXTY FIVE FEET BACK TO
THE GROUND.
THE BUILDING IS SEVEN SEVENTY
EIGHT FEET LONG SO WE HAVE FIVE
BREAKING ON TOP THE PARTS
EQUALLY AND FIVE COMING DOWN TO
THIRD FLOOR AND ANOTHER FIVE ON
SECOND AND FIVE ON THURSDAY AND
FIVE IN THE BASEMENT.
BY THE TIME WE'RE DONE WITH THE
BRACING BUILDING THERE IS NO
ROOM ANYWHERE.
IT'S THE BUILDING AND WE LOOK
TO KEEPING THE GREAT WALL
PORTION OF THE WALL.
BUT AGAIN ANOTHER MASONRY WALL
WITH ALL THE BRACING INSIDE THE
BUILDING AND HAVING IT IT MAKES
IT VERY DANGEROUS FOR
EMPLOYEES, SUBCONTRACTORS AND
PEDESTRIAN WORKING TOWARD THE
PROJECT.
SO IT WAS THE BEST OPTION FOR
US TO REMOVE THE BACK WALL TO
TO WORK SAFELY AND THAT'S
PRETTY MUCH THAT IS THE HOLE
THAT'S THE BIGGEST THING THAT
THE BANK NEEDS TO BE REMOVED.
EVERYTHING NORTH SOUTH THERE'S
A WALL THERE IS A SOFTBALL
THAT'S IN THE WEST VILLAGE
ESTATE.
THE ENTIRE ROOF IS BURNED DOWN
.
THERE IS SOME TEMPORARY SHORING
ON THIRD FLOOR THAT'S HOLDING
THE ROOF.
IF THOSE THINGS ARE REMOVED,
THE ROOF COLLAPSE ANY SECOND
AND THAT'S PRETTY MUCH AS FAR
AS SHORING THE BACK WALL.
WE ARE OPEN TO REPLACE A BACK
WALL WITH BRICK SOMETHING
SIMILAR BUT WHAT THE
CONSTRUCTION IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
CAN KEEP EVERYONE SAFE, THAT'S
ALL.
I MEAN ALSO WHEN YOU KEEP IN
MIND LOOKING AT THE REAR WALL,
IT'S ALREADY GOT SEVERAL WINDOW
OPENINGS THAT WERE ONE OF THE
ORIGINALS THE NEW ONES WERE PUT
IN PLACE THEN THEY'RE MODIFIED
AND ALSO THE ADDITIONS WHERE
THE ADDITION IS ADDED ON.
SO IF WE TAKE THE ADDITION
OF THE BUILDING, THERE'S ONLY
THOSE FEW INDIVIDUALS LEFT AND
THAT NEED TO BE FILLED OR WE
ARE RECONFIGURED WHICH MOST
OF THE BRICK 80 FOR SOUTH
AFRICA'S IT WAS ORIGINAL
BECAUSE WE VISITED THE BUILDING
INSIDE ALL THE INSIDE BRICK.
LET'S ALL BE CREATED .
SOME ARE GOING AFTER THIS IS
ONLY A TWO LIKE FORTY EIGHT
FEET TALL WITH NO NO BRAZING.
IT'S GOT TO PUT US IN A VERY
BAD SITUATION.
BUT DESPITE THE FACT THAT WE
CAN GO SUSTAINED ATTACK OUR OUR
OUR GOAL IS TO MAKE SURE THE
WESTFALL STAYS AS IS WITH NO
MOVEMENT.
SO WE CONSTRUCTED A NEW PROJECT
THAT INCLUDES TWO FIREBALLS ON
EACH SIDE I GUESS THE TWO
OF THEM TO FIRE THE WALL
BETWEEN NORTH AND SOUTH THOSE
ARE THE STATE NOT BEING MUCH
LESS IS NOT BEING MUCH THE WALL
IS BEING ACTUALLY FILLED
PARASITISM THE RECOMMENDATION
THEY WOULD LIKE US TO FOLLOW
THE EXISTING WALL.
I DON'T NEED TO SAY WHAT WE'RE
FEELING THOSE SO IT'S ONLY A
VERY SMALL SECTION OF THE EAST
WALL IS BEING REMOVED FOR
SAFETY PURPOSES.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
I HOPE THAT WAS HELPFUL.
APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
OK, NOW WE'RE GOING TO OPEN THE
APPRECIATE IT.
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
OK, NOW WE'RE GOING TO OPEN THE
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
PERSON SPEAKING UP FOR UP TO
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
PERSON SPEAKING UP FOR UP TO
APPLICATION AT TWO FIFTEEN TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
SEVENTEEN SOUTH MAIN STREET
APPLICATION AT TWO FIFTEEN TO
PUBLIC COMMENT MAYBE MADE IN
SEVENTEEN SOUTH MAIN STREET
PERSON OR BY CALLING IN USING
PUBLIC COMMENT MAYBE MADE IN
THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON
PERSON OR BY CALLING IN USING
THE MEETING AGENDA IN VIDEO
THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON
FEED.
THE MEETING AGENDA IN VIDEO
SO NOW'S THE TIME TO HIT STAR
FEED.
NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
SO NOW'S THE TIME TO HIT STAR
THERE'S NO ONE HERE AND I'M
NINE ON YOUR PHONE.
WONDERING IF ANYONE KNOW NO
THERE'S NO ONE HERE AND I'M
ONE'S RAISING THEIR HAND.
WONDERING IF ANYONE KNOW NO
OK, SO I'LL POST A PUBLIC
ONE'S RAISING THEIR HAND.
COMMENT AND NOW WE WILL
OK, SO I'LL POST A PUBLIC
OFFICIALLY POSTPONE THIS ITEM.
COMMENT AND NOW WE WILL
WE NEED A MOTION.
OFFICIALLY POSTPONE THIS ITEM.
YEAH, WE NEED A MOTION.
WE NEED A MOTION.
LET'S HAVE A MOTION TO SOMEONE
YEAH, WE NEED A MOTION.
WHO CAN SOMEONE MAKE MOTION
LET'S HAVE A MOTION TO SOMEONE
MAKE A MOTION THAT WE PROPOSE
WHO CAN SOMEONE MAKE MOTION
THE APPLICATION TO 15 TO 17 S
MAKE A MOTION THAT WE PROPOSE
MAIN STREET TO THE JULY 13TH
THE APPLICATION TO 15 TO 17 S
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING TO
MAIN STREET TO THE JULY 13TH
THE JULY 13TH TWENTY TWENTY
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING TO
THREE OK THAT IS PROPOSED BY
THE JULY 13TH TWENTY TWENTY
COMMISSIONER EVERSON SECONDED
THREE OK THAT IS PROPOSED BY
BY COMMISSIONER JAN ROSS AND
COMMISSIONER EVERSON SECONDED
LET'S HAVE A VOTE ALL THOSE IN
BY COMMISSIONER JAN ROSS AND
FAVOR SAY YES YES YES ALL THOSE
LET'S HAVE A VOTE ALL THOSE IN
OPPOSED SAY NO.
FAVOR SAY YES YES YES ALL THOSE
OK THE MOTION CARRIES WE ARE
OPPOSED SAY NO.
POSTPONING THIS HEARING TILL
OK THE MOTION CARRIES WE ARE
THE NEXT MEETING.
POSTPONING THIS HEARING TILL
WHAT ELSE?
THE NEXT MEETING.
THAT'S IT.
WHAT ELSE?
YOU'RE THERE AGAIN.
THAT'S IT.
CHRIS, I WILL BE IN TOUCH WITH
YOU'RE THERE AGAIN.
YOU AND WE'LL TALK ABOUT SOME
CHRIS, I WILL BE IN TOUCH WITH
REVISIONS OF YOUR UPLOADS.
YOU AND WE'LL TALK ABOUT SOME
ALL RIGHT.
REVISIONS OF YOUR UPLOADS.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, I'M THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
THANK YOU.
NEXT HEARING SO I'M ACTUALLY
OK, I'M THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
RECUSE MYSELF AT THE MOMENT AND
NEXT HEARING SO I'M ACTUALLY
THE COMMISSIONER FORTNER IS
RECUSE MYSELF AT THE MOMENT AND
GOING TO TAKE OVER.
THE COMMISSIONER FORTNER IS
I NEED ONE MOMENT.
GOING TO TAKE OVER.
PLEASE DON'T DO THE GREAT FOR
I NEED ONE MOMENT.
FROM THIS DENHA PARDON MY
PLEASE DON'T DO THE GREAT FOR
CLIPPING STUFF.
FROM THIS DENHA PARDON MY
OK,
SORRY
.
OK FIVE TWENTY TWO SECOND
STREET IS IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
IT'S A ONE AND THREE QUARTER
STORY VERNACULAR HOME WHICH
FEATURES AN ASSORTMENT
OF CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
NINE OVER ONE WINDOWS A SIMPLE
REC BOARD EXPOSED FANCY RAFTER
TAILS STEEPER THAN AVERAGE FOR
THE OLD WEST SIDE ROOF PITCH A
FOUR WITH INSET FRONT PORCH
WITH FLUTED IONIC HALF COLUMNS
OVER SCULPTED CONCRETE BLOCK
WALLS THAT MATCH THE HOME'S
FOUNDATION.
THE FRONT AND SIDE DOORS APPEAR
TO BE ORIGINAL.
THE SOUTH SIDE HAS A BAY WINDOW
ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND A LARGE
TABLE WHILE DORMER UPSTAIRS THE
ROOF FEATURES A RED BRICK
CHIMNEY AND THE HOUSE WAS FIRST
OCCUPIED IN NINETEEN SEVENTEEN
PER CITY ASSESSOR RECORDS SITE
IS ON THE WEST SIDE SORRY AM I
THE WEST SIDE OF SOUTH
OF SECOND STREET?
I MISSPOKE THE LOCATION IN THE
STAFF REPORT THE OPPORTUNITY
HGC APPROVAL TO ENCLOSE A
MODERN ROOFED BALCONY ON THE
REAR ELEVATION, REMOVE THE
BRICK CHIMNEY AND REMOVE A NON
HISTORIC TRIM BOARD JUST WHEN
WE THOUGHT WE WERE DONE WITH
CHIMNEYS.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS ON THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE VERY CHARACTER
DEFINING FRONT FACE VERY
CHARMING HOUSE.
THE INSET FRONT PORCH IS PRETTY
COOL.
THE FLUTED COLUMNS WHEN YOU GET
AROUND TO THE BACK THERE'S A
VERY LARGE EDITION BACK HERE
THAT IS DONE.
YOU KNOW PREMODERN HISTORIC
DISTRICT REGULATION.
THIS IS THE ON THE LEFT IS THE
NORTH SIDE.
ON THE RIGHT IS THE SOUTH SIDE
AND THE NORTH SIDE.
THIS IS THE ORIGINAL CORNER
OF THE HOUSE HERE AND THIS IS
THE ORIGINAL ROOFLINE AND THEN
UP ABOVE IT IS PART OF THE
ADDITION.
SO THE THIS ADDITION WAS INSET
HERE WHICH IS GOOD.
IT MAINTAINED THIS PART OF THE
ROOF AND I GUESS IT'S NICE THAT
THEY JUST LEFT THIS OVERHANG
HERE THIS
EVE AND PUT A NEW ONE
UP ON TOP OF IT.
IT'S JUST AN UNUSUAL DESIGN.
THIS LITTLE BALCONY IS WHAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE TODAY.
THEY WOULD LIKE TO ENCLOSE IT
BECAUSE THEY DON'T USE AND THEY
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THE SPACE TO
TO FIX SOME INTERIOR ISSUES
WITH THE FLOOR PLAN IT WOULD BE
SUPER SIMPLE.
THEY WOULD MATCH THE SIDING
SINCE IT'S IT WOULD BE A LITTLE
BIT RIDICULOUS TO DISTINGUISH
THE ENCLOSURE OF THIS PORCH
FROM THE MODERN ADDITION THAT
WAS BUILT IN THE NINETIES SO
THEY WOULD JUST MATCH THE
SIDING, LEAVE THIS PICTURE
OF THIS GABLE ROOF ON THE BACK
,PUT A WINDOW OR TWO IN AND
THAT'S ABOUT IT.
THEN IT WOULD BECOME
CONDITIONED INTERIOR SPACE.
THE OTHER BIT OF THE
APPLICATION THAT IS PROPOSED IS
TO TAKE THIS TRIM BOARD AND
REMOVE IT BACK HERE.
THIS IS THE ORIGINAL CORNER
OF THE HOUSE AND THERE IS
PRESUMABLY AN EVEN AN OVERHANG
RIGHT HERE AND I'M SORRY.
YEAH, RIGHT HERE AND THE THE
TRIM BOARD WOULD HAVE BEEN ON
TOP OF IT.
I GUESS IT'S JUST THIS LITTLE
BIT HERE.
IT'S SO HARD TO SAY BUT YEAH,
THERE'S THERE'S NOTHING
ORIGINAL ABOUT THIS WIDE BOARD
TRIM.
SO THE ARCHITECT IS PROPOSING
TO JUST TAKE IT OFF TO MAKE IT
JUST ONE TINY BIT LESS
CONFUSING
.
THERE'S ANOTHER PHOTO OF IT.
IT'S THEY WOULD JUST INFILL IT
WITH MATCHING WOOD SIDING.
SO EXISTING FIRST FLOOR FLOOR
PLAN THAT'S WHERE ENCLOSE THE
BALCONY IS CANTILEVERED A
LITTLE BIT.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT'S BIGGER
THAN THE POWDER ROOM ON THE
FIRST FLOOR.
IT WOULD BE ENCLOSED AND LET'S
GET TO THE PROPOSED DRAWINGS
BECOME FLOOR AREA FOR THE
BATHROOM AND THE BEDROOM YOU
IT'S REALLY NOT GOING TO BE
SEEN FROM THE STREET AT ALL.
THIS IS A NEW WINDOW BUT
BECAUSE IT'S ON A MODERN
EDITION I THINK THAT THAT'S
PERFECTLY APPROPRIATE.
AND THEN THERE'S A SIMILAR NEW
WINDOW FACING THE BACK.
THESE WINDOWS ARE A SMALLER
SIZE AND THEY'RE SIX OF OUR ONE
DESIGN.
SO I THINK I READ ALL THE
STANDARDS TONIGHT PRETTY MUCH I
HAVE READ ONE IN NINE AND TEN
FOR SURE AND I'VE READ MOST
OF THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS.
LET ME SEE IF THERE ANY THAT
I'VE MISSED.
IT DOES SEEM TO DESIGN A NEW
EDITION IN A MATTER THAT MAKES
IT CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC AND
WHAT IS NEW.
BUT THIS WILL BE NEW NEW YEAH
NOT TOUCHING UNDO NOT TOUCHING
HISTORIC.
UM LET'S THAT'S THAT'S THAT'S
ABOUT IT FOR THIS ONE.
LET ME CHECK MY STAFF COMMENTS.
I CAN'T MISS ANYTHING IMPORTANT
.
OH THIS BALCONY WOULD ADD SIXTY
TWO SQUARE FEET AND THIS WOULD
BRING THE FLOOR AREA UP TO THE
ADDITIONS UP TO THIRTY NINE
PERCENT OF THE HISTORIC FLOOR
AREA.
SO EVEN THOUGH THAT ADDITIONAL
BIG IT HAS A PRETTY SMALL
FOOTPRINT IT'S JUST VERY TALL.
UH LET'S SEE FOR THE AND THE
FOOTPRINT IS INCREASING.
FORTY ONE PERCENT TOTAL SO
THAT'S WITHIN THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES AND OH THE CHIMNEY
WE DIDN'T TALK ABOUT THE
CHIMNEY SO THIS CHIMNEY IS SORT
OF LOST UP HERE WITH THIS LARGE
NEW GABLE BEHIND IT.
LET ME GET A PHOTOGRAPH, OK?
I DON'T HAVE A GOOD PHOTOGRAPH
HERE SO THAT'S ONE.
YEAH IT'S YOU CAN SEE IT ON
GOOGLE STREET VIEW.
YOU CAN SEE THE CHIMNEY IF YOU
LOOK FOR IT BUT IT IS SO
OVERWHELMED BY THIS ADDITION
BEHIND IT.
IT'S IT'S I DON'T THINK IT HAS
ANY CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
REDEEMING QUALITIES LEFT ABOUT
IT.
I AM THE DEFENDER OF CHIMNEYS
AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
I I THINK THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME I'VE EVER SAID THAT IT'S
OK TO REMOVE ONE BUT IT'S JUST
SWALLOWED UP BY THE EDITIONS SO
IT'S PRETTY MUCH LOST ITS
INTEGRITY AND IT'S I USED THERE
WAS A PHOTO IN THE APPLICATION
PACKET I THINK THAT THAT SHOWED
THE CHIMNEY BUT YOU SEE YEAH.
SO ANYWAY STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE THE CHAIR.
DO I HAVE A SCRIPT FOR YOU?
DO THE YOU KNOW THAT TO YOU
TODAY.
OH I'M SORRY.
OK THAT'S OK.
I DIDN'T SEE I'M GOING TO PULL
UP THE STREET VIEW REALLY
QUICKLY WHILE YOU'RE PULLING
THAT UP
.
I'M SORRY I SHOULD PRINTED IT.
YEAH UM
PAPITO.
OK SO COMMISSIONER ROSS AND I
WERE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
AND DIDN'T REPORT TO EACH OTHER
TO ERM THANK YOU THAT YOU KNOW
THE MAIN CONCERN IS THIS IS NEW
WORK ON THE NEW ON THE MODERN
EDITION WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF THE CHIMNEY EVERYTHING IS ON
THE MOUNT, ALL THE WORK IS
BEING DONE ON THE MODERN
EDITION AND THE THE LITTLE
CHANGE OF THE TRIM TO THE
SIDING IS ACTUALLY TRYING TO
GET IT MORE TO CONFORM WITH
DISTINGUISHING THE NEW FROM THE
OLD IN A LITTLE AND A LITTLE
PIECE OF WHAT WAS ADDED.
OH OH I CONCUR WITH HER PARTNER
INSTEPS CHARACTERIZATION
RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE PROJECT
IT SEEMS PRETTY LIGHT PRETTY
LIGHT TOUCH.
I MEAN IT'S LITERALLY JUST
TAKING THE EXISTING ADDITIONS
THE OPEN PORCH AND CLOSING IT
AND JUST REMOVING SADDAM FROM
THE NEW WORKFORCE NOW HAS GOT
OBVIOUSLY THE ONLY KIND
OF TOUCHING OF THE HISTORIC
FABRIC THE CHIMNEY.
YEAH, YEAH.
HERE'S A PHOTO FROM STREET VIEW
WHERE YOU CAN SEE THE CHIMNEY
PARTICULARLY WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE ON YOUR MICROPHONE TURN
ON YOUR VIDEO IF POSSIBLE AND
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD YOU WILL HAVE UP
TO FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK JUST
AS SOON AS I LET HER IN THE
MEETING.
OK, SHE'S COMING NOW
.
ARTHUR HI.
HEY.
CAN YOU PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND AND
JACK RICHARDSON FIVE NINETY TWO
SECOND STREET YOU HAVE FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD TO
THE STAFF REPORT OR REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
DO THE COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT.
NO OTHER QUICK QUESTION ABOUT
THE CHIMNEY.
SO IS IT IS THERE ANY KIND
OF FUNCTIONAL REASON WHY IT'S
BEING REMOVED OR IS IT JUST
BECAUSE YOU KNOW JUST WORDS I
WANT TO USE IT TO GAIN SOME
SPACE TO OPEN UP SOME SPACE IN
THE WORK THAT WE PLAN TO DO
INSIDE THE HOME?
OK, IT'S IN THE EXISTING
KITCHEN WHICH IS VERY TIGHT AND
SO IT'S A BOMBED OUT SPACE THAT
WOULD ALLOW US TO HAVE THIS
SORT OF SQUARE WALLS AND SINCE
IT'S NOT BEING USED, THAT'S OUR
DESIRE TO GRAB SPACE.
THANK YOU.
YES, I'D NOW LIKE TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION PUBLIC COMMENT MAY
BE MADE IN PERSON OR BY CALLING
IN USING THE INFORMATION
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND THE VIDEO FEED TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
AFTER DIALING INTO THE MEETING,
PLEASE PRESS NINE ON YOUR PHONE
.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS AND
NONE OF THE ATTENDEES IN THE
ZOOME WAITING ROOM ARE RAISING
THEIR HAND.
OK, I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THE
APPLICATION WITH ANY
COMMISSIONER LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION ON THIS APPLICATION.
MY COMMISSION I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE TWENTY TWO
SECOND STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD BUYSIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO ENCLOSE A
MODERN BALCONY ON THE REAR
ELEVATION, REMOVE THE BRICK
CHIMNEY AND REMOVE A NON
HISTORIC TRIM BOARD AS PROPOSED
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA.
IT MEETS THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR STANDARDS
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
AND BUILDING SITE IN THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS SECOND
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER EVERSON
AND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
ROSS THIS IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION?
I GUESS I JUST HAVE A QUESTION
ABOUT IT SOUNDS LIKE BOTH
OF THE COMMISSIONERS HAVE
AGREED THAT THE CHIMNEY IS NOT
DOES IT REALLY APPEAR TO BE
HISTORIC AND
I THINK MY ONLY
HESITATION IS THAT THERE'S SOME
THAT THE ADDITION IS SO MUCH
HIGHER THAN THE EXISTING
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE THAT
THAT CHIMNEY PLACEMENT IS IN
SOME WAYS THAT ALMOST
ELIMINATED FROM THE ROOF OF THE
CONTRIBUTE INTO THE
NONCONTRIBUTING.
SO IT'S LIKE IT'S ALMOST A
SIGNIFIER AS I'M VIEWING IT
FROM PHOTOS.
BUT WHEN YOU SEE IT LIKE IS IT
SOMETHING THAT'S REALLY
VISIBLE?
YOU KNOW, ON THE STREET OR ON
THE SITE IS ONE OF THE GOOGLES
OF YOU.
IT ALSO LOOKED LIKE IT WAS
REALLY SKINNY AND IT WASN'T
VERY PROMINENT.
YEAH, YEAH.
I THINK THAT THAT GOOGLE STREET
VIEW WHERE YOU'RE ON THE FAR
SIDE AT ONE ANGLE IT I'M NOT
SURE EVEN FROM THE OTHER SIDE
IF YOU'D BE ABLE TO SEE IT.
WHAT'S DRIVE DOWN THE STREET
FROM THE OTHER SIDE IT'S THERE
IT'S RIGHT THERE YEAH.
SO OF GET A DIFFERENT EAR HERE
SEE IF THE I GUESS TO BE HONEST
LIKE WHEN WHEN I WAS OUT THERE
I DID IT I WAS FOCUSED ON THE
ADDITION SO I WASN'T I DON'T
THINK WE REALLY EVEN DISCUSSED
IT.
IT WASN'T KIND OF FALLS UNDER
THE UTILITARIAN KIND OF SO AND
I THINK IF YOU'RE STANDING
RIGHT IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE
HERE EVEN OK, SEE YOU.
AND I MEAN I GUESS I'M NOT
NECESSARILY LIKE OH DISCOUNTED
BECAUSE I GUESS I'M I'M I'M
JUST ALWAYS KEEP IN MIND THAT
JUST BECAUSE YOU CAN'T
NECESSARILY SEE SOMETHING
DIRECTLY FROM THE RIGHT AWAY
DOESN'T YOU KNOW DOESN'T MEAN
THAT IT CAN'T BE CHARACTER
DEFINING.
YEAH.
SO I MEAN I LIKE YOU I'M GOING
TO TRY A PERSON I'M KIND
OF LIKE BUT IN THE PAST WE'VE
IN THE RECENT PAST UM WE'VE
ALLOWED FOR THE CHIMNEY'S TO GO
ESPECIALLY IF IT'S THESE KIND
OF UTILITARIAN SITUATIONS.
THERE'S OTHERS LIKE THE RAFTER
I THINK THERE'S OTHER CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES ABOUT THE
HOUSE THAT ARE CLEAR ESPECIALLY
THE RAFTERS AND THE PITCH OR
DISTINCTIVE, RIGHT?
YEAH.
THE STAFF HAVE SOMETHING TO I
HAVE A QUICK QUESTION I'M GOING
TO ASK IS THIS CHIMNEY IN USE?
>> NO NOW OK.
AND FOR THE ARCHITECT AMONG US,
COULD THIS CHIMNEY EVEN BE USED
THE THE SEPARATION BETWEEN THAT
HIGHER GABLE ROOF SEEMS AWFULLY
CLOSE DOING YOU IT'S HARD TO
SAY FROM THE PHOTOS.
YEAH, I MEAN AS A COMBUSTIBLE
CHIMNEY LIKELY NOT BUT FOR AS A
VENT FOR POTENTIALLY OK OK JUST
YEAH IT'S HARD TO TELL HOW
CLOSE IT IS BUT YEAH MAYBE AND
YEAH THAT'S JUST TEXTED ME AND
SAID NO IT CAN'T BE USED I
THINK YOU KNOW GOES DOWN TO THE
BASEMENT FROM AN OLD BOILER
SITUATION I SHOULD SAY I'M
SORRY DETECTIVES REFUSED BUT
YEAH BADLY IF IT IF IT HAD A
FIREPLACE BY ALL MEANS WE WOULD
BE USING IT WE YEARS AGO GOT
SOME ASSISTANCE AND PUT IN A
LOT STUFF IN THE BACK TOO.
SO WE WOULD LOVE THAT WE CAN
BUT IT CAN'T BE USED SO IT'S
JUST A CHIMNEY RUNNING DOWN IN
THE BASEMENT.
I THANK YOU
AND THE REST OF THE
WORK I THINK IS COMPLETELY
COMPATIBLE.
I THINK THE ONLY OTHER THAT
TRIM BOARD I THINK THERE WAS AN
INTENT THAT IT MIGHT INDICATE
THAT THERE WAS A ROOF AT ONE
POINT BUT AND IF THE EXTENSION
OF THAT ROOF HAD BEEN HAD
REMAINED, I THINK THAT WOULD BE
A DIFFERENT DISCUSSION.
BUT THAT TREND BOARD DOESN'T
REALLY TELL US MUCH OF ANYTHING
SO I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING ELSE
I'M SORRY I DON'T HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE, OK?
ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE?
YES.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
MOTION CARRIES YOUR APPLICATION
HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT AND THANK YOU.
THANKS RIGHT
.
I THINK HE'S WATCHING.
BE HERE ANY MINUTE HE'S NOT.
I'LL GO GET HIM THERE.
IS THERE IS THE WONDERS
OF TECHNOLOGY
.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER WERNER
FOR THAT.
APPRECIATE IT.
AND WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
HEARING WHICH IS F FOR FIVE
FORTY THREE DETROIT STATURE.
WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE THE STAFF
REPORT.
YES CIRCA EIGHTEEN FIFTY FIVE
HOUSE IS ONE OF OURS OLDEST
THIS REVIVAL WAS PART OF JOHN
ALLEN AND ELIJAH RAMSEY'S
ORIGINAL PLAN OF AN EIGHTEEN
TWENTY FOR THE EIGHTEEN FIFTY
THREE PLANT MAP SHOWS A HOUSE
ON THIS LOT THOUGH ITS EXACT
DATE OF CONSTRUCTION IS UNKNOWN
THE UPPER RIGHT WING STYLE
OF GREEK REVIVAL WITH A ONE AND
THREE QUARTER STOREY MAIN BLOCK
THAT COULD HAVE BEEN BUILT AS
EARLY AS THE EIGHTEEN THIRTIES
THE ONE STOREY WING WAS ADDED
SOMETIME BETWEEN 1870 AND
EIGHTEEN EIGHTY EIGHT PER
SANDBORN MAPS IN DECEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO OF THE A
PART OF AN APPLICATION TO ADD A
SHED DORMER AND REAR SLIDER YOU
CAN SEE THE SHED DORMER UNDER
CONSTRUCTION IN THIS PHOTO ON
TOP OF THE ROOF AND IN MARCH
OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE THE DC
APPROVED APPLICATION TO
CONSTRUCT A LOWER LEVEL EDITION
A PUMP OUT OF THE REAR EDITION
,A WINDOW ON THE REAR
ELEVATION AND EVENT ON THE
NORTH SIDE ELEVATION HOUSE IS
ON THE WEST SIDE OF DETROIT
STREET NORTH OF EAST KINGSLEE
AND SOUTH THE NORTH DIVISION
BROADWAY EAST SUMMIT
INTERSECTION.
THE AFRICANNESS HGC APPROVAL TO
REMOVE THE WOOD SIDING AND TRIM
REINSTATE THE INSTALL AND
INSTALL SHEETING AND THEN
REINSTALL SALVAGEABLE EXTERIOR
WOOD PLUS MATCHING NEW CUSTOM
MILLED CEDAR SIDING AND CYPRESS
TRIMMED TO MATCH AS NECESSARY.
THIS IS THE FINAL HANDOUT FOR
TONIGHT THAT YOU SHOULD HAVE IN
FRONT OF YOU WHICH IS IT'S A
ONE PAGER AND IT'S A IT'S AN
EXPANDED VERSION OF SOME OF THE
APPLICATION MATERIALS THAT WERE
INCLUDED IN ANTIGROWTH OR IN
STREAM.
BUT YOU SHOULD PROBABLY TAKE A
MOMENT TO LOOK AT THAT.
I'M GOING TO RUN THROUGH THESE
PHOTOS HERE.
BUT IF YOU'RE LOOKING AT THAT,
I DON'T WANT TO MAKE YOU LOOK
AT US SO WE'LL JUST GIVE YOU A
BIT OF A SOCIETY, OK?
I DON'T REALLY NEED ANYTHING.
THERE WAS NEW NECESSARILY
EXCEPT FOR MAYBE THE PERCENT.
YEAH, OK.
THAT'S THE ONLY THING THAT'S
OK.
WE CAN ASK.
OK OK GOOD.
ALL RIGHT SO LET ME OOPS I'VE
GOTTEN INTO SOMETHING CRAZY.
OK BACK TO PHOTOS FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE SITE VISIT THE
CONDITION OF THE SIGHTING WAS
OBSERVED BY THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THERE ARE THERE ARE SOME BOARDS
THAT HAVE PULLED OFF THAT WE
WERE ABLE TO TAKE A LOOK AT.
THE PAINT HAS A LOT OF PEELING
FLAKING ALLIGATOR IN THERE.
CLEARLY PLACES WHERE IT'S
PEELING SO BADLY THAT YOU COULD
SEE WATER WOULD VERY EASILY
PENETRATE IN THERE BETWEEN THE
BOARDS.
BUT ACTUALLY OVERALL IT DIDN'T
LOOK WORSE THAN A LOT OF SIDING
THAT WE SEE THAT THAT GETS
REHABILITATE AND RESTORED WITH
A SELECTIVE REPLACEMENT
OF BOARDS HERE AND THERE THAT
ARE DETERIORATED OR CRACKED
BEYOND REPAIR.
I CAN'T CAN'T BE FILLED AND
MADE WHETHER TIGHT THERE
DRAWINGS SHOWING THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS WHICH IS WE HAVE THE
TWO BY FOUR WALL FRAMING AND
THE PLASTER AND LAUGH ON THE
INSIDE ARE ATTACHED TO THE
FRAMING ON ONE SIDE AND THE
SIDING IS ATTACHED TO THE
FRAMING AND THE OTHER SIDE
.
THIS IS UNFORTUNATELY NOT
UNCOMMON IN HISTORIC HOUSES AND
THEN THE CELLULOSE INSULATION
AT SOME POINT WAS WAS WAS ADDED
BETWEEN THE FRAME BETWEEN THE
STUDS AND THE APPLICANTS CAN
TELL YOU MORE ABOUT IT BUT
WATER HAS GOTTEN IN.
IT'S SUNK BASICALLY BETWEEN THE
STUDS AND IS NOT DOING ANYTHING
IN TERMS OF INSULATING AT LEAST
IN THE PHOTOS THAT WE SAW
PROPOSAL IS TO ADD SHEATHING ON
THE OUTSIDE OF THE STUDS, THE
WALL FRAMING AND THEN REINSTALL
CLAPBOARD SIDING OVER THE TOP
OF THAT YOU LET'S SEE I DON'T
WANT TO QUOTE THE WRONG THING
SO YOU'LL HAVE TO LOOK AT YOUR
HANDOUTS FOR THE PERCENTAGE
OF OF REUSED ESTIMATED VERSUS
NEW SIDING WHICH WOULD MATCH
THE PROFILE OF THE EXISTING
SIDING.
AND THESE ARE PHOTOS FROM THE
APPLICATION I BELIEVE.
YEAH, THEY ARE SHOWING THE
CELLULOSE AND THE WATER GETTING
IN THAT LOOKS LIKE A CRACKED
AND STANDARDS I'VE READ TO YOU
TWO, FIVE, NINE AND TEN UP TO
FIVE AND NINE ALREADY FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
GUIDELINES FOR WOOD IT'S
RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY, RETAIN
AND PRESERVE WOOD FEATURES THAT
ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING SUCH AS SIDING
CORNICES, BRACKETS,
ARCHITRAVES, DOOR PEDIMENTS AND
THEIR PAINTS FINISHES IN COLORS
NOT RECOMMENDED AS REMOVING A
RADICALLY CHANGING WOOD
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDINGS THAT
AS A RESULT THE CHARACTER IS
DIMINISHED RECOMMENDED FOR
REPAIRING WOOD IS IDENTIFYING,
RETAINING AND PRESERVING
FEATURES.
ACTUALLY I THINK THAT THIS IS A
DIFFERENT VERSION THE SAME ONE
THAT I ALREADY READ TO YOU
ABOUT PRESERVING SIDING FROM
BUILDING SITE.
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO IDENTIFY,
RETAIN AND PRESERVE BUILDINGS
IN THEIR FEATURES AS WELL AS
FEATURES OF THE SITE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT TO DEFINING ITS
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER.
NOT RECOMMENDED IS REMOVING OUR
RADICALLY CHANGING BUILDINGS
AND OUR FEATURES OUR SITE
FEATURES WHICH ARE IMPORTANT IN
DEFINING THE OVERALL HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE PROPERTY SO
THAT AS A RESULT THE CHARACTER
IS DIMINISHED FROM THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WOOD SIDING TRIM
AND ARCHITECTURAL DETAILS IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO REPAIR WOOD
SIDING, SHINGLES, TRIM AND
TEXTURAL FEATURES BY USING
RECOGNIZED PRESERVATION METHODS
OF PATCHING, CONSOLIDATING,
SPLICING AND REINFORCING IN
ORDER TO EXACTLY MATCH THE
EXISTING HISTORIC MATERIAL
APPEARANCE ALSO REPLACING WOOD
SIDING, SHINGLES, TRIM AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES THAT ARE
DETERIORATED BEYOND REPAIR WITH
COMPONENTS THAT EXACTLY MATCH
THE ORIGINAL ALSO APPROPRIATE
AS REMOVING DAMAGED OR
DETERIORATED PAINT TO THE NEXT
SOUND LAYER USING THE GENTLEST
MEANS POSSIBLE HAND SCRAPING
AND HAND SANDING AND THEN
REPAINTING.
ALL RIGHT.
I DON'T THINK THAT I HAD ANY
OTHER STAFF COMMENTS ON THESE.
OK, THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONERS ROS AND FORTNER
WERE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS, SIR
?
UM, SO YES.
SO UM AS PER STAFF
CHARACTERIZATION OF THE
CONDITIONS UM YEAH.
OBVIOUSLY WE JUST KIND
OF THOUGHT WE COULD SEE FROM
THE OUTSIDE AND THE SIGHTING
DID.
YEAH I KNOW THE QUESTION IS
ABOUT THE CONDITIONS WHEN IT
COMES TO THE INSULATION BUT
FROM WHAT WE WE OBSERVED THE
SIGHTING APPEARED TO BE IN FINE
CONDITION JUST IN NEED
OF SCRAPING AND PAINTING,
DIDN'T REALLY SEE ANY SORT
OF EVIDENCE OF OH MY GOSH,
THERE'S A BUNCH OF WATER COMING
IN AND THERE'S BULGING OR
ANYTHING CRAZY GOING ON LIKE
THAT ANY SORT OF KIND
OF WHOLESALE FAILURE OF THE
SIGHTING OR INDICATION WATER
DAMAGE.
YEAH, YEAH I'D HAVE TO AGREE.
YOU KNOW FROM READING THE
REPORT TO DOING THE REVIEW IT
LOOKED BETTER THAN I EXPECTED
IT DID THAT YOU KNOW WHEN YOU
FEEL ALONG THE BOTTOM THE WOOD
IS STILL HARD AND YOU KNOW
THERE'S THERE'S NO BULGING
OF THE CELLULOSE OR ANYTHING
BUT YOU CAN'T SEE WHERE THERE
WERE PLACES WHERE WATER WOULD
GET IN BECAUSE THE PAINT LAYER
HAS DETERIORATED SO BADLY.
THANK YOU BOTH THE AFGHAN
POLICE I THINK YOU'RE HERE
RIGHT NOW.
WOULD YOU PLEASE STEP FORWARD
AND PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES TO
COMMENT ON THE STAFF REPORT AND
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORTS
AND REALLY GOT ANY OTHER
INFORMATION THAT YOU'D LIKE TO
I GUESS I'M A COUPLE AND FIVE,
FOUR, THREE DETROIT ST. ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN FOR A TOTAL
OF THREE JONATHAN DAYTON
SEVENTY FOUR PROSPECT YPSILANTI
WITH REBUILD LLC CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACTOR MANHART EIGHTY NINE
THIRTY FIVE NORTH CLUB VIEW
YPSILANTI, MICHIGAN ALSO WITH
REBUILDING.
AND SO WHAT BRINGS US HERE AS
WE WERE WE HAVE TWO APPROVALS
FOR YOU GUYS ALREADY AND
PERMITS IN PLACE OR ONE FOR THE
UPSTAIRS ADDITION AND A BUMP
OUT IN THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
AND IN THE PROCESS OF THIS WORK
WE FOUND THROUGH REMOVING
PLASTER THERE IS INTERIOR WATER
DAMAGE AND SUBSEQUENT RAINY DAY
WE JUST SAW WATER COMING
THROUGH THE SIDING.
WE ONLY EXPOSED A COUPLE WHAT
WAS BASED ON A COUPLE OF WALLS
AND THEN WE REMOVED SIDING FROM
THE AREA ON THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE WHERE THE APPROVED THAT
IS SO DOES NOT DISTURB ANYTHING
ELSE.
AND WHAT WE FOUND IN ADDITION
TO THE AREAS WHERE THE SITE HAD
FAILED AND ACT OF FAILURE AND
WATER GETTING IN IS WE FOUND
THAT EVEN REMOVING THE SIDING
IN A TEST SCENARIO THERE'S BOTH
HIDDEN FASTENERS AND NAILS JUST
MAKING IT MORE DIFFICULT BASED
ON THE OF THE MATERIAL THAT
IT'S BRITTLENESS THAT WE
REMOVE.
MOST OF IT FAILED AND SO JUST
TRYING TO ESTIMATE THE
LIKELIHOOD OF WHAT WE COULD
SALVAGE VERSUS WHAT WE COULD DO
NEW AND TO A POINT NOT REALLY
KNOWING WHAT WE'RE GETTING TO
AS FAR AS HOW FAR DOES THIS GO,
WE GOT IT COVERED .
PORCHES MAY BE IN BETTER
CONDITION BUT YOU KNOW, IF
WE'RE GOING THAT FAR, CAN WE
TAKE THIS BUILDING A STEP
FURTHER IF WE CAN SALVAGE
MATERIALS AND PUT THINGS BACK
IN THE WAY THEY WERE, PUT IT
BACK WITH A BETTER SUBSTRATE
BEHIND IT?
YOU KNOW, THIS THIS CURRENT
HOUSE HAS HAS INTERIOR SHEETING
IN THE FORM OF ONE BY SIX TO
ONE BY SIXTEEN, YOU KNOW, FOR
PLANTING THERE AS THE THE LAST
ONE THAT'S CREATING THIS
STRUCTURAL SHEAR STRENGTH
TYPICALLY IN NEW HOMES WE HAVE
THE PLYWOOD ON THE OUTSIDE IF
WE CAN HAVE IF WE WERE TO GO SO
FAR AS TO PUT PLYWOOD EXTERIOR
SHEETING AND A GREEN SCREEN, IT
WOULD PRESERVE THE LENGTH
OF THAT THE WIFE OF WHATEVER
SIDE AND WE'RE USING
REINSTALLING AND ANYTHING THAT
GOES IN NEW AS WELL AS
PROTECTING FURTHER THE YOU
KNOW, VERY OLD FRAMING THAT'S
BEHIND IT.
SO THAT'S OUR THAT'S OUR
REQUEST IS TO HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GO AT THIS BEST
PRACTICE BUT NOT FULLY KNOWING
YOU WHAT AMOUNT OF DAMAGE WE'RE
GOING TO SEE AS WE TAKE THINGS
OFF AND WHAT'S SALVAGEABLE.
BUT THE INTENT TO BE TO
MAINTAIN THE EXACT LOOK THAT WE
HAVE ON THE EXISTING SIDING END
AND OR HOUSE TRIMS ANYONE ELSE
I THINK THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THAT WAS HELPFUL EXPLANATION
COMMISSIONERS.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
?
NO QUESTION.
YOU MENTIONED THAT YOU KNOW THE
ONES WITH THE RAIN SHIELD IT'S
GOING TO BE THREE QUARTERS
OF AN INCH THICKER THAN IT IS
CURRENTLY AND HOW THAT AFFECTS
THE PART WHERE IT MEETS THE
FOUNDATION IS THAT GOING TO
HAVE ANY EFFECT ON TRIMMING OUT
THE WINDOWS?
WELL, THAT WAS IN OUR APPROACH.
OUR ASSUMPTION WOULD BE WE
WOULD REMOVE AND REINSTALL
TRIMS FOR THE WINDOWS AND
EVERYTHING COMES OUT THAT SAME
DISTANCE AND SO THEN THE
RELATION OF THE SIDE INTO THE
TRIM STAYS THE SAME AND THE
FACT THAT ACTUALLY HELPS US AT
THE FOUNDATION BECAUSE IN THE
VERY FIRST PICTURE THE PICTURE
THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE YOU CAN
SEE THE PLACES WHERE THE
FOUNDATION WALL ACTUALLY STICKS
OUT FROM THE FRAMING AND
DECIDING.
SO THERE IS A POTENTIAL THERE
IS THERE IS WATER SITTING AT
TIMES YOU SEE IT THERE BEHIND
THE SIDE A LITTLE BIT IF YOU
ZOOMED IN.
BUT THE SIDING AND THAT KIND
OF WATER TABLE BOARD ARE
SITTING INSIDE OF THAT
FOUNDATION.
WALL STREET IS THE REGULAR
WALLS.
IT'S A STONE WALLS ABOUT 20
INCHES THICK BUT IT'S JUST YOU
KNOW, IT'S NOT IT'S NOT
PROTECTED REAL WELL.
SO ANYTHING IN THAT CHAIN IS
GOING TO BE REALLY ADDING VALUE
.
BUT THAT WOULD BE THE OVERALL
GAIN WOULD BE SEVEN SIXTEEN
SHEETING PLUS A QUARTER INCH OR
THREE EIGHT RAIN SCREEN THAT
THAT WOULD BE THE CAUSE OF THAT
THAT PUMP OUT SO THE TRIM
SIDING RELATIONSHIPS STAYS THE
SAME.
IT'S JUST IT JUST ALL COMES
TOGETHER IN ONE PLANE THE PLANE
OF THE GLASS WILL BE THREE
QUARTERS OF AN INCH DEEPER.
CORRECT.
BUT WITH THE SCREENS THEIR
SCREENS IN THERE AND SO THAT
WOULD BE ESSENTIALLY WHAT
HAPPENS IS OCCURRING NOT A
FRIENDSHIP.
YOU HAVE A JAM EXTENSION, JAN,
THAT WOULD THAT WOULD BE IN
LINE WITH THAT THE SCREENS ON
THE WINDOWS.
SO IT WOULD BE IT WOULD BE
NEGLIGIBLE IN THAT REGARD AS
FAR AS FROM THE STREET IS GOING
TO LOOK IDENTICAL.
BUT YES, THE WINDOW WOULD BE
THREE QUARTERS OF AN INCH
FURTHER BACK FROM FACE OF THE
GERMAN SIDING
AND SO YOU WOULD
BE INSTALLING NEW CELLS FOR ALL
THE WINDOWS AS WELL OR
RERACKED.
YEAH, YEAH.
AND YOU WOULD YOU BE TAKING THE
WINDOWS OUT REINSTALL NO WE CAN
WE CAN KEEP THEM IN WITH THE
JAMES AND HIS IS IN PLACE AFTER
LOOKING AT IT AND IT WOULD JUST
BE A REPLICATION OF THE CELL
JUST THREE QUARTERS OF AN INCH
LARGER.
YEAH UNDERSTOOD.
AND WE'VE ALREADY DONE SOME
SOME RESEARCH AND WE'VE
ACTUALLY HAD TO GET SOME CUSTOM
DONE FOR THAT DORM ON THE BACK
END.
SO WE'VE HAD SOME KNIVES MADE
TO MATCH CUSTOM.
YOU KNOW THE CROWNING.
SO AGAIN, THE INTENTION HERE IS
TO KEEP IT AS IS BUT JUST
BETTER BETTER BUILT AND AND
WHAT ABOUT THE THE FREEZE
BOARD?
IS THIS A IS IT A VENTILATED
RAIN SCREEN OR IS IT INVENTED
IN THE UNINVENTED AND UNDER
THAT REASON OTHERWISE IT WOULD
CHANGE THE LOOK AT EVERYTHING
UNDERSTOOD.
YEAH.
SO IT'S REALLY JUST A DRAINAGE
PLAIN.
YES.
GOT IT.
OTHER QUESTIONS.
OK SO NOW WE'LL WE'LL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION.
THERE'S NO ONE HERE BUT IT'D BE
IT'S TIME TO HIT STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE IF YOU'RE IN THE
WAITING ROOM THERE'S NO NO
WAITING ROOM.
I'M GOING TO CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND YOU GUYS CAN SIT
BACK AND WE MIGHT CALL YOU BACK
UP.
YEAH.
WHAT ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION?
OK,
I'M SORRY.
I THINK YOU KNOW, I KNEW THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT FIVE
FORTY THREE DETROIT STREET A
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY TO THE
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO REMOVE THE WOOD
SIDING AND TRIM RECENTLY AND
INSTALL SHEETING THEN REINSTALL
ALSO SALVAGEABLE EXTERIOR WOOD
PLUS MATCHING NEW CUSTOM BUILT
CEDAR SIDING IN CYPRESS TRIM TO
MATCH AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARD FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO FIVE AND NINE IN
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE AND WOOD AND THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR WOOD SIDING TRIM
AND ARCHITECTURAL DETAILS
SECOND GRADE THAT IS MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER FORTNER.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION I ANOTHER QUESTION FOR
JOHN WHILE WE THINK ABOUT
DISCUSSION, CAN YOU PLEASE
EXPLAIN IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE'S
SORT OF A UNIQUE LADD'S IT'S
EXISTING ON THE BUILDING AND SO
CAN YOU TELL US A LITTLE MORE
ABOUT THE LAB BECAUSE IT SEEMS
LIKE THERE COULD BE AN APPROACH
TO INTERIOR THAT MIGHT BETTER
MATCH THE STANDARDS THAT WE'RE
HEARING.
YEAH, WE NEED TO HEAR AN
EXPLANATION AS TO WHY THIS
NEEDS TO BE AN EXTERIOR NOT AND
AND SO WE DID HAVE LOOKED AT BY
A STRUCTURAL ENGINEER AND PARTS
OF THIS TIMBER FRAME YOU KNOW,
THERE'S TIMBER FRAME BEAMS AND
POSTS IN PARTS OF THE STRUCTURE
.
THE REST OF IT IS OLD BUILDING
FRAMING, YOU KNOW, TO AN EIGHT
BY FOUR IN AN EIGHTH.
YOU KNOW, STRUCTURAL FRAMING
AND WHAT'S ON THE INSIDE IS ONE
FULLY ONE INCH BY SIX INCH AND
ONE BY UP TO 16 INCH BOARDS
ACROSS THE INTERIOR FRAMING AND
SO REMOVING THAT TO C DO
INSULATION OR SOME SORT
OF VERSION OF A GREEN SCREEN
FROM THE INSIDE WOULD
POTENTIALLY CREATE SOME VERY
MAJOR COMPROMISES TO THE
STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY THE
BUILDING WOULD HAVE TO DO IN A
VERY SMALL STAGES BECAUSE
THERE'S NOTHING REALLY GREEN
THAT SHEAR STRENGTH YOU GET
FROM PLYWOOD OR OTHER OTHER YOU
KNOW, LET ALAEDDIN DIAGONAL
BRACING.
SO IF WE WERE TO DO IT FROM
INSIDE AND DID A COUPLE
OF PROBLEMS, ONE IS THAT IT
WOULD IT WOULD BE VERY
LABORIOUS IN THAT WE WOULD HAVE
TO DO IT SECTION BY SECTION AND
THEN ORDERING THE PLYWOOD BACK
OVER IT TO CREATE THAT SHEAR
STRENGTH FROM THE INSIDE.
IF WE WERE TO TRY TO PRESERVE
THIS SITE ON THE OUTSIDE AND
PUT SPACE ON THE INSIDE OR PUT
SOME SORT OF RIGID MATRIX
MATERIAL ON THERE, IT'S STILL
NOT PROTECTING THE OUTSIDE BASE
OF THE TWO BY FOUR FRAMING OR
THE THEIR EIGHT CELLS OR MUD.
SO THERE'S NOTHING REALLY
PROTECTING THAT FROM THE WATER
RUNNING DOWN.
SO IT REALLY, REALLY DID
ACTUALLY ISOLATE AND PROBABLY
EXACERBATE THE PROBLEM AND
SPEED UP THE DILAPIDATION
OF DECIDING IN ANY FRAMING
THAT'S GETTING WET FROM THE
WATER COMING IN.
SO THAT'S WHY WE LOOKED THAT
APPROACH AND THEN WHAT THE
ENGINEERS SAYING THAT
STRUCTURALLY SPEAKING IT WASN'T
REALLY IT WASN'T A GOOD IT'S AN
APPROACH.
IT HAS TO BE TAKEN VERY
CAUTIOUSLY THAT LED US TO WELL
WHAT DO WE DO FROM THE OUTSIDE
AND WHAT'S THE BEST APPROACH
THEN AND MOST COMPLETE APPROACH
REALLY.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M HEARING YOU.
I'M JUST WONDERING IS WOULD IT
BE IT WOULD BE POSSIBLE TO DO
IT FROM THE INSIDE IS WHAT I'M
HEARING YOU'RE PREFERRING TO DO
IT FROM THE OUTSIDE FOR YOU'VE
DONE THE COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
AND I THINK IT'S BETTER FROM
THE INSIDE BECAUSE GOT I THINK
THE FRAMING IS THEN EXPOSED AS
ONE LAYER OF PROTECTION THAT'S
CURRENTLY FAILING IN AREAS AND
SO IT JUST ACTUALLY ISOLATES
THAT, YOU KNOW.
SO TO WHAT EXTENT YOU KNOW, WE
DON'T KNOW IF WE DON'T YOU
KNOW, CHECK OUT OF EVERY 10 OR
20 YEARS AND THEN WE'RE DOING
MOISTER CHECKS ON IT.
SO IT'S IT'S GUESSWORK IN THAT.
BUT OUR THOUGHT IS WE KNOW WE
CAN DO IT RIGHT FROM THE
OUTSIDE AND THE BUILDING WOULD
BE BETTER FOR IT.
YEAH.
OK, THANKS FOR THAT.
ANYTHING ELSE OTHER QUESTIONS
YEAH.
WHILE HE'S UP HERE.
ANYTHING ELSE OTHER QUESTIONS
OK THANK YOU.
WHILE HE'S UP HERE.
ALL RIGHT LET'S LET'S GET BACK
OK THANK YOU.
TO THE DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
ALL RIGHT LET'S LET'S GET BACK
MISREPRESENTED YOU HAVE A
TO THE DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
COMMENT OR QUESTION I THINK
MISREPRESENTED YOU HAVE A
JUST KIND OF PASSING THROUGH
COMMENT OR QUESTION I THINK
THE ENTIRE APPLICATION AND
JUST KIND OF PASSING THROUGH
EVERYTHING THAT'S BEEN STATED
THE ENTIRE APPLICATION AND
FROM STAFF REPORT AND REVIEW
EVERYTHING THAT'S BEEN STATED
COMMITTEE BUT ALSO THE APPROACH
FROM STAFF REPORT AND REVIEW
AND THE REASONS WHY UM THEY'RE
COMMITTEE BUT ALSO THE APPROACH
CONSIDERING THE APPROACH FROM
AND THE REASONS WHY UM THEY'RE
THE EXTERIOR WHILE WE WOULD
CONSIDERING THE APPROACH FROM
NORMALLY NOT WANT TO SEE
THE EXTERIOR WHILE WE WOULD
EVERYTHING COME DOWN AND BE
NORMALLY NOT WANT TO SEE
REPLACED, I THINK THAT THE
EVERYTHING COME DOWN AND BE
MANNER THE REASONING BEHIND IT
REPLACED, I THINK THAT THE
IN THIS CASE ESPECIALLY WITHOUT
MANNER THE REASONING BEHIND IT
ANY PROTECTION FROM BETWEEN
IN THIS CASE ESPECIALLY WITHOUT
LIKE DECIDING DIRECTLY ON THE
ANY PROTECTION FROM BETWEEN
STUDS IS REALLY AND THAT IS
LIKE DECIDING DIRECTLY ON THE
FAILURE AND THAT THEY'RE TRYING
STUDS IS REALLY AND THAT IS
TO ADDRESS THAT TO PROLONG THE
FAILURE AND THAT THEY'RE TRYING
LIFE OF THE BUILDING.
TO ADDRESS THAT TO PROLONG THE
ALSO LOOK AT IT FROM AN ENERGY
LIFE OF THE BUILDING.
STANDPOINT I THINK IS
ALSO LOOK AT IT FROM AN ENERGY
SIGNIFICANT IN THE FACT THAT
STANDPOINT I THINK IS
THEY'RE WILLING TO TO DO IT
SIGNIFICANT IN THE FACT THAT
EXACTLY IN THE MANNER THAT IT
THEY'RE WILLING TO TO DO IT
DID HOUSES EXISTING WITH ALL
EXACTLY IN THE MANNER THAT IT
THE TRIM AS IS IN THE BOARDS
DID HOUSES EXISTING WITH ALL
AND OUT OF WOOD I THINK IS A
THE TRIM AS IS IN THE BOARDS
REALLY SIGNIFICANT UNDERTAKING
AND OUT OF WOOD I THINK IS A
AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
REALLY SIGNIFICANT UNDERTAKING
APPRECIATED THAT THEY'RE
AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
WILLING TO GO THROUGH THAT THAT
APPRECIATED THAT THEY'RE
LEVEL OF REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT
WILLING TO GO THROUGH THAT THAT
.
LEVEL OF REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT
AND I DO THINK THAT IT WHAT WE
.
WOULD PROBABLY PREFER TO SEE IT
AND I DO THINK THAT IT WHAT WE
FROM THE INTERIOR.
WOULD PROBABLY PREFER TO SEE IT
I THINK THERE WAS A GREAT
FROM THE INTERIOR.
EXPLANATION ABOUT THE WHY THE
I THINK THERE WAS A GREAT
INTERIOR APPROACH IS DIFFICULT
EXPLANATION ABOUT THE WHY THE
NOT JUST STRUCTURALLY BUT ALSO
INTERIOR APPROACH IS DIFFICULT
FROM A THERMAL MOISTURE
NOT JUST STRUCTURALLY BUT ALSO
STANDPOINT, FROM WATER
FROM A THERMAL MOISTURE
PENETRATING INTO THE TWO BY
STANDPOINT, FROM WATER
FOUR FRAMING OR THE TIMBER
PENETRATING INTO THE TWO BY
FRAMING ITSELF I THINK IS MORE
FOUR FRAMING OR THE TIMBER
SIGNIFICANT FROM MY POINT
FRAMING ITSELF I THINK IS MORE
OF VIEW.
SIGNIFICANT FROM MY POINT
I THINK THAT EVERYTHING THAT'S
OF VIEW.
PRESENTED AT EVEN THOUGH IT
I THINK THAT EVERYTHING THAT'S
DOESN'T YOU KNOW, WE WOULD WANT
PRESENTED AT EVEN THOUGH IT
TO SEE THAT ALL OF THE SIDING
DOESN'T YOU KNOW, WE WOULD WANT
REPLACED.
TO SEE THAT ALL OF THE SIDING
I THINK THAT THEY'RE TRYING TO
REPLACED.
MAINTAIN AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
I THINK THAT THEY'RE TRYING TO
SO I THINK I SUPPORT THE
MAINTAIN AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
APPLICATION FOR ALL THOSE
SO I THINK I SUPPORT THE
REASONS BUT SO I MEAN I GUESS
APPLICATION FOR ALL THOSE
IT JUST YOU KNOW, I GUESS THAT
REASONS BUT SO I MEAN I GUESS
BEING AN ARCHITECT UM I'M
IT JUST YOU KNOW, I GUESS THAT
HAVING A HARD TIME WITH THIS.
BEING AN ARCHITECT UM I'M
YOU KNOW, AS THE STAFF REPORT
HAVING A HARD TIME WITH THIS.
NOTES, THIS IS ONE OF THE
YOU KNOW, AS THE STAFF REPORT
OLDEST HOUSES IN ANN ARBOR AND
NOTES, THIS IS ONE OF THE
IT SEEMED TO BE FINE UP UNTIL
OLDEST HOUSES IN ANN ARBOR AND
NOW.
IT SEEMED TO BE FINE UP UNTIL
THE CONDITION THAT IT'S IN
NOW.
TERMS OF HAVING THE SIDING
THE CONDITION THAT IT'S IN
DIRECTLY ON THE STUDS AND AND I
TERMS OF HAVING THE SIDING
JUST IN I I'M STILL NOT
DIRECTLY ON THE STUDS AND AND I
UNDERSTANDING THAT THERE'S A
JUST IN I I'M STILL NOT
WHOLESALE FAILURE IN TERMS
UNDERSTANDING THAT THERE'S A
OF MOISTURE GETTING, YOU KNOW,
WHOLESALE FAILURE IN TERMS
BEHIND THE CURRENT SIDING THAT
OF MOISTURE GETTING, YOU KNOW,
WOULD MERIT LIKE TAKING IT ALL
BEHIND THE CURRENT SIDING THAT
DOWN AND ALL OF A SUDDEN IS IT
WOULD MERIT LIKE TAKING IT ALL
HAPPENING IN JUST A COUPLE
DOWN AND ALL OF A SUDDEN IS IT
OF SPACES?
HAPPENING IN JUST A COUPLE
I MEAN I GET THAT WATER IS
OF SPACES?
GETTING IN CLEARLY BY THE FEW
I MEAN I GET THAT WATER IS
PICTURES THAT WE SAW.
GETTING IN CLEARLY BY THE FEW
BUT TO ME LIKE IF THERE IS
PICTURES THAT WE SAW.
PROOF SHOWING THAT OH MY GOD
BUT TO ME LIKE IF THERE IS
LIKE WHOLESALE WATER IS GETTING
PROOF SHOWING THAT OH MY GOD
IN, YOU KNOW, 80 PERCENT
LIKE WHOLESALE WATER IS GETTING
OF THEM 80 PERCENT OF THE WALL
IN, YOU KNOW, 80 PERCENT
SURFACE WATER IS GETTING IT OK
OF THEM 80 PERCENT OF THE WALL
BUT I JUST I'M NOT FEELING IT
SURFACE WATER IS GETTING IT OK
AND I MEAN I GET THE EFFICIENCY
BUT I JUST I'M NOT FEELING IT
I GET LIKE WANTING TO LIKE
AND I MEAN I GET THE EFFICIENCY
LET'S GO AHEAD AND LET'S ADD
I GET LIKE WANTING TO LIKE
INSULATION BUT WHERE THE
LET'S GO AHEAD AND LET'S ADD
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
INSULATION BUT WHERE THE
NOT THE EFFICIENCY COMMISSION.
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
SO I'M SORRY I JUST HAVE A
NOT THE EFFICIENCY COMMISSION.
LITTLE BIT OF TIME HARD TIME
SO I'M SORRY I JUST HAVE A
WITH THIS ONE.
LITTLE BIT OF TIME HARD TIME
YEAH.
WITH THIS ONE.
I WAS SORT OF STRUGGLING WITH
YEAH.
THAT BUT I THINK THESE ARE
I WAS SORT OF STRUGGLING WITH
COMING BEFORE.
THAT BUT I THINK THESE ARE
DO YOU WANNA MAKE A COMMENT?
COMING BEFORE.
I DID.
DO YOU WANNA MAKE A COMMENT?
PLEASE COME UP COME UP TO THE
I DID.
MICROPHONE PLEASE PLEASE DON'T
PLEASE COME UP COME UP TO THE
COME AND EXPLAIN BETTER THAN I
MICROPHONE PLEASE PLEASE DON'T
WILL AND PART OF IT IS THAT
COME AND EXPLAIN BETTER THAN I
BECAUSE THERE'S NO INSULATION
WILL AND PART OF IT IS THAT
RIGHT NOW THERE'S A BIGGER
BECAUSE THERE'S NO INSULATION
AIRFLOW IN THE WALLS.
RIGHT NOW THERE'S A BIGGER
RIGHT.
AIRFLOW IN THE WALLS.
AND SO WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANY WAS
RIGHT.
OBVIOUSLY GLASS MOLD YOU ANY
AND SO WE HAVEN'T SEEN ANY WAS
MOLD COME THROUGH BECAUSE
OBVIOUSLY GLASS MOLD YOU ANY
THERE'S BETTER AIRFLOW BUT
MOLD COME THROUGH BECAUSE
BECAUSE OF YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY
THERE'S BETTER AIRFLOW BUT
MODERN BUILDING REQUIREMENTS WE
BECAUSE OF YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY
HAVE TO PUT INSULATION IN THOSE
MODERN BUILDING REQUIREMENTS WE
WALLS THAT WOULD RESTRICT THE
HAVE TO PUT INSULATION IN THOSE
AIRFLOW WHICH WOULD THEN CREATE
WALLS THAT WOULD RESTRICT THE
A BIGGER PROBLEM.
AIRFLOW WHICH WOULD THEN CREATE
UM AND ALSO, YOU KNOW, YOU
MENTIONED THE WHOLESALE LACK
OF EVIDENCE OF A WHOLESALE
FAILURE.
BUT IF WE ADDRESS IT FROM THE
INSIDE WHERE WE'RE TAKING THE
SAME WHOLESALE APPROACH JUST
FROM THE INSIDE AND AND IT'S
NOT NECESSARILY AGAIN IT'S NOT
FIXING THE PROBLEM ON THE
OUTSIDE EVEN IF IT'S NOT A
WHOLESALE FAIL, IT'S A PARTIAL
FAILURE OF 20 PERCENT, 40
PERCENT WHATEVER THAT NUMBER
IS.
WE'RE WE'RE THEN ISOLATING THAT
THAT MOISTURE INTO THE
FRAMEWORK AND WHATEVER GETS
BEHIND THAT SLIDING WE'LL NEVER
SEE IT AGAIN UNTIL THE SCIENCE
STARTS FALLING OFF AND THEN YOU
RUIN FRAMING IT PERMANENTLY.
AND SO THAT'S PART OF IT.
IT'S IT'S THAT BALANCE BETWEEN
IF WE WANT TO DO IT RIGHT NO
ONE BUT WE CAN'T REALLY DO IT
RIGHT FROM THE INSIDE AND IT'S
TAKING IT OFF OUTSIDE THE RIGHT
WAY I DON'T KNOW BUT INOW
IT'S GOING TO WORK AND IT'S
GOING TO LOOK THE SAME THAT I
DO KNOW AND THAT PRESERVES THE
STRUCTURE OF THE BUILDING TO
PRESERVE THE VISUAL INTEGRITY
OF IT.
SO THAT'S WHY WE WENT THAT
APPROACH BECAUSE IT FELT LIKE
IT WAS THE BEST SOLUTION AND I
APPRECIATE THAT IT'S JUST MORE
OF AND I APPRECIATE
COMMISSIONER EVERSON SAYING,
YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY YOU GUYS
ARE GOING TO GO THROUGH A LOT
OF EXPENSE AND TROUBLE FOR
THIS.
RIGHT.
AND IT WILL LOOK THE SAME BUT
IT'S STILL YOU KNOW, WE'RE
STILL KIND OF CHARGED WITH
PROTECTING THAT AREA.
BUT IF WE DON'T GO FROM THE
OUTSIDE, WE KNOW THERE'S
FAILURES AND IF WE DON'T GET
THEM ALL WE DON'T YOU KNOW, AND
IT'S GOING TO BE AGAIN IN THE
FUTURE AT SOME POINT IF IT'S
NOT IF WE REPLACE YOU KNOW, THE
AREAS WE KNOW FOR SURE IF WE
MISSED SOMETHING THAT AREA IS
GOING TO GET INFILTRATED BY
WHAT EVERY EVERY HEADCASE THAT
THE WINDOWS HAVE BEEN REPLACED
PREVIOUSLY.
WE CAN TELL IT'S NEW MATERIAL.
SO THERE'S BEEN DIFFERENT WATER
ISSUES IN THE PAST.
YOU KNOW, WITHOUT STRIPPING
INSIDE OR THE OUTSIDE WE DON'T
REALLY KNOW THE EXTENT THAT
WE'VE ONLY EXPOSED ONLY A VERY
FEW PLACES BECAUSE FROM THE
INSIDE EVERYTHING IS STRUCTURAL
THE SHEETING.
SO THERE'S JUST NOT THAT MUCH
OF ABILITY TO SEE THERE AND
IT'S ALL GOT BLOWN IN
INSULATION AND IT'S JUST SO
THERE'S JUST THERE'S A LOT
OF DIFFERENT PITFALLS IN THIS
BUT WE'RE HERE BECAUSE WE WANT
TO DO IT RIGHT.
YEAH, ONE COMMISSIONER YEAH.
WELL I THINK YOU KNOW THE
DISCUSSION OF THE PROBLEMS
OF DOING IT FROM THE INSIDE
HAVE MADE ME THINK ABOUT THIS
IN TERMS OF WE'RE SACRIFICING
SOME HIGH PERCENTAGE OF THIS
ORIGINAL SIDING FOR THE LONGER
TERM PROTECTION OF THE
STRUCTURE IS YES.
CORRECT THEN SORT OF THE CHOICE
HERE IS THERE'S NO WAY EVEN IF
YOU WERE WILLING TO DO ALL THE
WORK FROM THE INSIDE THAT WOULD
PROTECT THE FRAME.
IN FACT, IF WE IF WE I WOULD BE
WILLING TO STAND BEHIND THIS
STATEMENT IF WE GO ON THE
INSIDE AND WE PUT SOME SORT
OF RAIN SCREEN IN THERE, WE
INSULATE IT.
WE'RE GOING TO MAKE THAT SIDE
AND FEEL FASTER BECAUSE
MOISTURE WON'T ESCAPE EXCEPT
FOR THE STUFF WILL SOAK AND
THAT MOISTURE HAS GOT TO GO OUT
WITH PIPING PAINT.
IT'S AND THEN YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE FAILURE PAINT THEN YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE FAILURE WOULD AND
AGAIN YOU HAVEN'T PROTECTED THE
FRAMEWORK OF THE HOUSE.
SO IT'S NOT AN EASY SOLUTION
BUT YOU COULD PROBABLY DO IN AN
INTERIOR RAIN STREAM BUT THOSE
ARE VERY DIFFICULT.
YES.
YEAH.
AND THEN YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE INSULATION BECAUSE YOU YOU
TOOK UP SOME OF THEIR DESIGNS
AND SO YES, THIS IS A VISUAL
IT'S A VISUAL VERSUS STRUCTURAL
AND A LOT OF WAYS IT'S A TOUGH
WE WRESTLED WITH IT FOR A
WHILE.
YEAH.
AND WE'RE WRESTLING WITH IT
BECAUSE THE STANDARDS ARE ARE
VERY CLEAR ABOUT THE APPROACH
AND YOU'RE TAKING A DIFFERENT
APPROACH THAN THE STANDARD.
SO IT'S CHALLENGING US.
I THINK WE'VE KIND OF BOTH
ARGUMENTS HERE.
SO UNLESS THERE'S THERE'S MORE
DISCUSSION, I THINK WE SHOULD
GO TO A VOTE.
I GUESS I DO HAVE YES.
LET'S HAVE SOME MORE DISCUSSION
YOUR STATEMENT SO WHAT'S
STANDARD WHAT'S THE ISSUE
BECAUSE THE DECIDING KIND
OF THE THE DETERIORATION
OF FIGHTING IS ACTUALLY JUST
GOING TO BE CAUSED BY REMOVING
THE SIGHTINGS.
GREAT AS A CURTAIN THEN I THINK
I'M AGREEING WITH YOU THEY LIKE
THIS THE STANDARDS ARE
SUPPORTING YOUR ARGUMENT.
YES.
SO IT IS THAT IS THAT CLARIFIED
MY COMMENT.
YEAH.
OK, BUT BUT IT'S STILL SO THEN
HOW IF IF IF WE'RE GOING TO
SUPPORT IS HOW WHAT STANDARD DO
WE PUT THIS INTO.
IS IT IN ORDER TO PROCEED THEN
WHAT WOULD WHAT DO WE OWE
ANSWERS.
I MEAN THE WORK IS PROPOSED TO
TO SOLVE A PROBLEM RIGHT.
IT'S NOT PROPOSED OUT
OF CONVENIENCE OR ANYTHING ELSE
AND THAT PROBLEM IS WATER
INFILTRATING THE WALLS AND
POTENTIALLY WRITING OUT THE
FRAMING AND THE CELLS.
ALL RIGHT.
I GUESS IF YOU WANT TO I GUESS
I WANT TO KNOW WHAT
SPECIFICALLY WHAT STANDARD ARE
YOU LOOKING AT?
THAT'S THAT'S THAT'S GIVING YOU
PAUSE.
WHICH ONE SPECIFICALLY I THINK
THAT WOULD REPAIR RECOMMENDED
REPAIRING WITH FEATURES AND
PATCHING AND CONSOLIDATING OR
OTHERWISE REINFORCING THE WORD
USING RECOGNIZED PRESERVATION
METHODS NOT RECOMMENDED
REPLACING AN ENTIRE WITH
FEATURES SUCH AS A WALL LAND
REPAIR THE WOOD AND LIMITED
REPLACEMENT OF DETERIORATED OR
MISSING PARTS ARE APPROPRIATE.
SO THIS IS SORT OF A WHOLESALE
APPROACH THAT THEY'RE PROPOSING
BUT PIECEMEAL IS THE WAY THAT
THE STANDARDS ARE SAYING.
BUT THERE'S THERE'S AN
EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES.
I THINK THAT WAS ALTERATION
CORRECT BECAUSE I THINK IT'S
ALSO JUST LOOKING AT ONE FOR
SAYING THAT YES.
THAT THAT IS PART OF THE
STANDARD.
BUT IF WE'RE NOT LOOKING AT THE
OVERALL LIKE IT'S PART OF THE
REASON IT'S FAILING IS BECAUSE
THERE IS ALSO A BUILDING SYSTEM
PROBLEM OF INSULATION INSTALLED
PREVIOUSLY THAT CAUSED THE
SIDING FAILURE.
SO IF WE'RE GOING TO GO BACK
AND PUT INSULATION AGAIN, IT'S
STILL GOING TO CAUSE A PROBLEM
AGAIN, WHICH IS WHY I THINK
THAT IN THIS PARTICULAR
INSTANCE THE WAY THAT THE HOUSE
WAS WAS BUILT WITH THE SIDING
DIRECTLY AGAINST THE FRAMING
AND THE STRUCTURAL DISCUSSION
THE WAY IT IS THE SHEER SUPPORT
EXISTS IN THE HOUSE DIFFERENT
FROM THE INTERIOR IS EXTREMELY
EXTENSIVE AND THAT IS
INSULATION IS JUST PUT BACK IN
WITHOUT JUST REPLACING PARTS
OF THE SIDING.
THE PROBLEM IS GOING TO COME
BACK UP AGAIN AND DETERIORATE
THE SIDING AGAIN.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
THE ONLY WAY TO KEEP THE DESIGN
THE WAY IT IS AND MAINTAIN ITS
INTEGRITY IS TO NOT PUT
INSULATION ON THE WALLS CORRECT
BECAUSE HEAT HEAT THE SIDING
USING YOUR HEATER AND I THINK
IN THIS CASE THAT WAS BECAUSE
OF AN OWNER.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE I THINK THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT IS YOU KNOW, I
THINK I DON'T THINK WE CAN
IGNORE THE ENERGY CONSERVATION
EFFORT OF OF WHERE WE ARE IN
TODAY'S SOCIETY.
I JUST DON'T THINK WE CAN'T IN
INSULATION REQUIREMENTS.
BUT THERE'S THERE'S THE
BUILDING CODE TO CONSIDER BUT
THERE'S A BUILDING CODE .
I THOUGHT THAT THERE'S AN
EXEMPTION FOR STORAGE WHEN IT
COMES TO BUILDING CODES TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT BUT IT STILL
GETS TRIGGERED ESPECIALLY
WHENEVER THERE'S A CERTAIN
EXTENT OF RENOVATION THAT DOES
OCCUR AND WHERE WE FIX THINGS.
YEAH.
PLUS IF THE OWNER WANTS
INSULATION PUT IN INSULATION
WHICH THEY SHOULD BUT A LOT
OF PEOPLE WANT THINGS THAT WE
DENY ALL THE TIME BECAUSE IT
DOESN'T IT DON'T MEET THE
STANDARDS.
SO IT'S YEAH I MEAN I GUESS WE
CAN THINK OF IT I THINK I'M
JUST YEAH I DON'T HAVE THE
MAJORITY OF THE COMMISSIONER I
THINK I KNOW I THINK THAT THIS
HAS BEEN A GOOD DISCUSSION.
THIS IS ONE OF THESE PROPOSALS
WHERE IT'S IT'S VERY
CHALLENGING FOR THE COMMISSION
BECAUSE IT'S IT'S I FEEL LIKE
PERSONALLY THERE'S EXTENUATING
CIRCUMSTANCES THAT ARE THAT ARE
IF YOU JUST TAKE ONE IF YOU
JUST TAKE A LOOK AT THE
STANDARDS, IT'S IT'S IT'S YEAH.
NOT NOT FOLLOWING A SPECIFIC
STANDARD IN A SPECIFIC WAY BUT
LET'S VOTE OK.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THIS
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO NO THE MOTION CARRIES
YOUR APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPROVED I'M SURE YOU ALREADY
HAVE BUILDING PERMITS BUT
BUILDING PERMITS ARE REQUIRED
TO CREATE WORK TO CONTINUE.
THANK YOU.
YEAH
.
INTERESTING NIGHT SO FAR I'VE
HAD A LITTLE BIT OF EVERYTHING
AND KICKED UP A BIG WRITE DOWN
BUT LET'S CONTINUE DOING THAT.
THAT'S RIGHT ON TO NEW
BUSINESS.
OK I GET THE AGENDA BACK UP
HERE.
I DON'T THINK WE HAVE ANY
BUSINESS THAT WE ACTUALLY DO.
WE'VE GOT TO SELL THIS HOUSE
ACTUALLY YOU HELD ELECTIONS
LAST MONTH, RIGHT?
WE DID.
SO I HEAR YOU AND I GOT THE
MESSAGE GARBLED.
I THOUGHT THAT YOU HADN'T
GOTTEN TO ELECTIONS BUT YOU HAD
THEM SO YOU'RE GOOD.
I THOUGHT IT WAS REMEMBER
PRESIDENT OBAMA LIKE THAT HE
DIDN'T QUITE SAY THE WORDS
QUITE RIGHT IN THERE TO DO
AGAIN.
I THOUGHT WE SCREWED IT UP.
YOU WERE HERE.
OH, NO, NO, NO.
I'LL DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT IN
A CERTAIN WAY.
YOU DON'T NEED TO DO ANYTHING
YOU WANT OTHER THAN I HAVE TO
ASK WHO THE VICE CHAIR IS.
IS IT YOU ARE YOU THE
SECRETARIES AND THE SECRETARIES
IT SAID SOMETHING TO JESSICA IN
THE MINUTES WE SHOULD CHECK
THEM OUT AND PUTTING THEM NOW.
YEAH THAT WAS IT MIGHT BE ROUGH
AND THEN THERE IS A G-2.
YES.
AND AJITA THAT IS THE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE HGC AWARD
COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS SAID THAT
WITH A LOT OF ENTHUSIASTS.
SO THERE ARE 17 AWARD
NOMINATIONS
, MOSTLY
PRESERVATION AWARDS FOR PEOPLE
THAT HAVE MAINTAINED THEIR
HISTORIC BUILDINGS FOR OVER TEN
YEARS
OF OWNERSHIP AND THERE'S
ALSO WE CHANGE SOME OF THEM AT
THE LAST MINUTE THERE'S A
SPECIAL MERIT AWARD FOR THE
STONE PORCHE ON AND STREET THAT
JOE GALINA'S REBUILT WHICH IS
WAS PRETTY COOL PROJECT AND
THERE ARE TWO THAT WAS ONE
OF TWO SPECIAL MERIT AWARDS.
THE OTHER ONE IS FOR THIS THE
BRICK PILLARS AT ZETA TAU ALPHA
HOUSE AT WASHTENAW AND HILL
THAT THEY MOVED BACK
DISASSEMBLED CLEAN, REASSEMBLED
FARTHER FROM THE ROCK AND
FARTHER FROM THE RIGHT OF WAY
SO THAT PEOPLE COULD GET IN THE
DRIVEWAY WITHOUT THREATENING
THEM.
AND THAT WAS THAT WAS THAT WAS
FROM A FEW YEARS AGO.
BUT YOU KNOW, THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME THERE HAVE BEEN AWARDS
SINCE TWENTY NINETEEN.
WOW.
SO WE HAD A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKLOG THAT WE TO WORK
THROUGH AND THESE ARE SELECTED
BY THE CITY THESE ARE SELECTED
BY THE DC AWARDS COMMITTEE.
OK, WHICH CONSISTS OF SIX
MEMBERS RIGHT NOW.
THAT'S RIGHT.
OK AND WE ARE ALWAYS LOOKING
FOR MORE MEMBERS.
COMMISSIONER EVERSON WAS ON THE
COMMITTEE BUT IS NO LONGER SO
IF ANY OF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
VOLUNTEER IT'S ON WE HAVE A VAN
TOUR WE DRIVE AROUND.
IT IS A PRETTY ON TOUR.
THERE'S USUALLY A LUNCH
INVOLVED BUT IT'S PRETTY COOL
TO PEOPLE SAY I'M ONE OF THE
ONE OR TWO OTHER PEOPLE.
I MEAN HOW DO YOU GO SEE IN THE
VAN OCCASIONALLY PEOPLE CALL ME
UP AND SAY HOW DO I GET AN
AWARD?
NOT USUALLY THOUGH MORE LIKELY
SOMEBODY ELSE SAYS HOW DO I GET
IN OR HOW DO I GET TO WORK FOR
MY NEIGHBOR OR MY FRIEND OR THE
AWARDS COMMITTEE IS SORT OF ON
THIS 365 DAYS A YEAR AND THEY
ALL SUBMIT THEIR NOMINEES THIS
YEAR WE WENT THROUGH SO IT
COULD BE A SURPRISE TO OH YEAH.
OH DEFINITELY.
OH IT IS TO MOST PEOPLE TO MOST
PEOPLE IT'S A SURPRISE.
YEAH YEAH.
WE PROBABLY WENT THROUGH A
HUNDRED ADDRESSES AND NARROWED
IT DOWN TO THE SEVENTEEN.
YEAH WE VISITED I WASN'T ON
THIS THIS ROUND HAD TO PACK BUT
I DID YEAH.
IN THE PAST WELL THANKS TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR ALL THAT
HARD WORK THAT'S WHERE THE
AWARDS COMMITTEE DID THEY DO A
LOT OF WORK THERE ON TOP OF IT
AND IT'S IT'S NICE BECAUSE IT'S
IT DOESN'T JUST HAVE TO BE IN A
HISTORIC NEIGHBORHOOD OR A
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
SO THERE ARE CERTAIN CRITERIA
THAT THEY USE.
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
GUIDELINES FOR DISTINGUISHING
AWARDS AND THEN THERE'S CERTAIN
CRITERIA THAT YOU HAVE TO THE
HOUSE HAS TO BE UNDER OWNERSHIP
FOR A CERTAIN PERIOD OF TIME
AND CAN'T RECALL THERE'S
ANOTHER ONE FOR REHABILITATION
,IS THAT CORRECT?
REHABILITATION IS ANOTHER
CATEGORY WHERE YOU COULD BE A
NEW OWNER BUT IF YOU DID A
MASSIVE REHAB PROJECT YOU CAN
GET AN AWARD FOR THAT.
I THINK THERE WAS ONE OF THOSE
THIS YEAR OR YOU CAN GET AWARDS
FOR SPECIAL MERIT SOMETIMES
THERE'S A PRESERVATIONIST
OF THE YEAR OCCASIONALLY AND
THERE ARE ALSO CENTENNIAL AND
BICENTENNIAL AWARDS AS THEY
COME UP.
SO REALLY ANYBODY CAN NOMINATE
AN ADDRESS AND THE AWARDS
COMMITTEE REVIEWS UNDER THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
GUIDELINES BUT IT'S NICE
BECAUSE IT DOES EXPAND THE
REACH, SO TO SPEAK, OF HISTORIC
AFTER WE SENT THROUGHOUT ANN
ARBOR PROBABLY THERE THEY'RE
MARKED ON THE LIST PROBABLY
FIVE OR SIX OF THOSE ADDRESSES
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THE MAJORITY
IS
SO I DO NEED YOU TO SOMEONE
MAKE A MOTION TO APPROVE THAT
LIST AND SOMEONE TO SUPPORT IT
IN BOTH.
I THINK I CAN DO IT SO I MOVE
THAT HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION APPROVED THE
AWARDING OF FOR THE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE PRESERVATION
AWARDS SECOND WITHOUT OBJECTION
IT'S APPROVED BY BOTH SECONDED
IT OH THERE WE GO ON WITH TO
BEGIN WITH ANNA ARE GOING OH
THIS IS BE I
OK MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF MINUTES WE'VE GOT
THE MAY 11TH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE MINUTES IN OUR PACKET SO
I DID GET THEM WRONG.
YEAH I'LL HAVE SO THE ELECTION
OF OFFICERS IT'S JENNIFER I
HEARD YOU'RE JUST LIKE I OK
WELCOME.
OK ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON THE
MINUTES.
OK SO WAIT A SECOND WHILE WE
CAN GO ON TO I THAT'S REPORTS
FOR COMMISSIONERS ANY ANY
REPORTS THIS MONTH FROM OUR
COMMISSIONERS SEEING NONE WE
CAN MOVE ON TO GAO ASSIGN IT'S
LOOKS LIKE IT'S MONDAY JULY
10TH 5:00 PM I CAN DO IT OK OK
COMMISSIONER ROSS HAS ONE
ANYONE ELSE.
THANK YOU.
YEAH I CAN DO IT AS WELL OK
GREAT THANK YOU.
IT'S SO GOOD.
THANK YOU BOTH KIDS AT CAMP
THAT LATE.
IT'S OVER NOW KIM OH THAT'S THE
BEST KIND
.
I DO HAVE ONE REPORT FROM STAFF
THAT I WOULD LIKE YOU TO
CONSIDER DISCUSSING.
THERE WAS AN ITEM THAT WAS
SUBMITTED FOR THIS MONTH'S
AGENDA THAT I COMPLETELY
OVERLOOKED AND MESSED UP AND
DID NOT PUT ON THE AGENDA BUT
IT IT HAS A LITTLE BIT
OF UNCERTAINTY TO IT.
SO I TOLD THE COMMISSION THE
APPLICANTS THAT I WOULD ASK YOU
TO DO SORT OF A MINI FIVE
WORKING SESSION TO GET SOME
JUST PRELIMINARY FEEDBACK ON IT
.
PHEW.
IT'S A FEW PAGES AND I THINK
YOU'LL HAVE TO RECUSE YOURSELF.
YES, BECAUSE IT'S FROM LIKE
STUDIO AND I'M GOING TO SHOW
YOU ON YOUR SCREENS HERE THE
PROPOSAL THIS IS ONE HERE.
LET'S MAKE IT BIGGER, OK?
AND I WANT TO THANK YOU IN
ADVANCE FOR FOR HER FOR DOING
THIS BOTH FOR ME AND FOR THEM.
THIS IS THE CANTERBURY HOUSE AT
THE CORNER OF HURON EAST AND
NORTH.
THEY ARE STREET.
IT IS A CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE
IN THE OLD NORTHWEST HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
IT HAS ALSO HAD MAJOR
MODIFICATIONS.
YOU CAN SEE HOW THE HOUSE IS
BUILT ALMOST TO THE PROPERTY
LINES ON THIS FRONT AND AND
THIS WHICH I GUESS IS THE REAR
THERE'S A ROOF PLAN OF THE
BUILDING.
THEY'VE GOT THIS LITTLE BIT
OF LAWN UP HERE IN THE FRONT
AND THIS IS THE ORIGINAL BIT
OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS IN ADDITION AND THIS IS
THESE ARE BOTH MODERN ADDITIONS
ON HERE AND THIS IS THE THE
HOUSE FROM THE STREET.
IT HAS YOU KNOW, LIKE I SAID,
MAJOR MODIFICATIONS TO THE
FRONT.
IT USED TO BE A STORE.
AH THERE USED TO BE A STORE
ATTACHED TO IT OR SOMETHING BUT
IT DIDN'T LOOK LIKE THIS.
IT WAS A STORE FOR THE ENTERED
FROM THE SIDE HERE AND THERE
MAY HAVE BEEN SOME SORT
OF PORCH BUT IT'S NOT
RECOGNIZABLE REALLY EXCEPT THAT
THERE MIGHT HAVE BEEN SORT OF A
STOREFRONT WINDOW HERE THAT DID
NOT LOOK LIKE THIS.
THE CANTERBURY HOUSE IS A
STUDENT PARISH AND THEY HAVE
MUSICAL PERFORMANCES FOR FOUR
ARTISTS.
THEY DON'T IT'S NOT A
FUNDRAISER.
THEY LET THE ARTISTS COME IN
AND THEY GET TO KEEP THE MONEY
IF THERE'S A COVER CHARGE WHICH
IS PRETTY COOL IF YOU'RE AN
ARTIST AND THEY HAD SOME VERY
INTERESTING PERFORMANCES THERE
RIGHT NOW YOU CAN SEE THAT
THERE'S A SHRUB ROW HERE.
THERE'S THIS GROUND
COVER THAT'S NOT REALLY USABLE
SPACE.
WHAT THEY'D LIKE TO DO IS BE
ABLE TO DO SOME OUTDOOR THINGS
LIKE MEETINGS AND TALKS AND
THINGS NOT LIKE BIG PUBLIC
EVENTS OR ANYTHING BUT SMALL
GROUPS OF STUDENTS AND THEY
WANT TO MAKE THIS AREA MORE
USABLE.
THEY WOULD GET RID OF THE
PICKET FENCE, THE THE
DIFFICULTY OF THIS AND I HOPE
THAT THEY'RE EITHER WATCHING ON
YOUTUBE RIGHT NOW OR THEY SAID
THAT THEY MIGHT COME BACK AND
WATCH THE REPLAY.
THE DIFFICULTY IN ALL OF THIS
IS THAT THIS IS YOU KNOW, THIS
IS A RESIDENTIAL STREET CORNER
HISTORICALLY AND IT DID USED TO
HAVE A DRIVE GOING ACROSS IT
BUT THAT'S BEEN REMOVED AND
THERE WAS A GARAGE IN THE BACK
AND THAT'S BEEN REMOVED WHEN
THIS BIG ADDITION WAS PUT ON
FOR THE BETTER AND THE HISTORIC
PRESERVATIONISTS OPINION POINT
OF VIEW THERE'S ALSO SEE THIS
PORCH HERE.
THERE'S ALSO A BIG RICKETY
FALLING APART PORCH WITH STAIRS
ON EITHER CORNER NEXT TO THE
HOUSE THAT THEY WOULD LIKE TO
REMOVE AND MAKE SMALLER AND I'M
GOING TO STAFF APPROVE THAT
WORK.
IT WILL NO LONGER HAVE A
RAILING AROUND IT.
IT'LL JUST HAVE HANDRAILS TREE
THAT DESIGN WHEN I GET THERE IN
A SECOND.
SO THIS IS THE EXTENT OF THE
DECK RIGHT NOW THEY'D LIKE TO
REMOVE THE EXISTING GROUNDCOVER
AND SHRUBS AND THE WHITE PICKET
FENCE.
IT WOULD LEAVE US FENCING
THAT'S BACK HERE THAT'S SORT
OF A TRASH ENCLOSURE.
WHAT
ABOUT THE TREE?
THE TREE GOES AND THEY WOULD
LIKE TO PUT A STACKED BLOCK LOW
CEILING WALL ALONG THE FRONT
OF THE SPACE HERE AND PUT IN A
BLUE STONE PATIO LIKE THIS ON
THE LEFT AND THEN THE STAIRS
WOULD JUST BE THIS
CONFIGURATION THAT ONLY
REQUIRES THESE HANDRAILS TO GET
UP.
I DO IT WITH THREE STEPS
INSTEAD OF THAT BIG GUARDRAIL.
I THINK THAT'S A HUGE
IMPROVEMENT RIGHT THERE.
MY CONCERN IS THAT THIS IS A
LOT OF HARD SPACE AT THE CORNER
IN WHAT HISTORICALLY HAS BEEN A
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING WHICH
CLEARLY IS NOT A RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING ANYMORE.
SO THIS IS MY DILEMMA.
THEY'RE UNDER THE LANDSCAPING.
I TALKED TO THE ARCHITECT ABOUT
IT AND THE LANDSCAPING WAS SORT
OF AN AFTERTHOUGHT.
YEAH.
TO ME WITH MY COMMENTS TO JUST
NOT MAKE IT A BIG HARD SPACE SO
THERE MIGHT BE A DIFFERENT WAY
OF DOING THAT.
THEY'RE JUST SHOWING A COUPLE
OF SORT OF PLANTING BEDS BUT
YOU CAN TALK OVER YOU KNOW, IF
YOU'VE GOT PEOPLE SITTING ON
THE STAIRS, THE STAIRS ARE A
LITTLE BIT EXTRA DEEP STILL
MAKE CODE BUT SO YOU CAN SIT ON
THEM A LITTLE EASIER AND THEY
REALLY JUST WANT TO UTILIZE
THIS SPACE.
THIS WOULD STILL BE LAWN OVER
HERE IN FRONT OF THE BUILDING.
SO WHAT WHAT WHAT IS THE
THINKING IF YOU GO BACK TO
THAT, WHAT IS THE THINKING THEY
HAVE THE WALL THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO SIT ON THE STACKED STONE
WALL THAT'S FUNCTIONAL BUT THEN
IT CONTINUES ALONG.
WHAT IS THE FUNCTION OF THAT
THAT'S JUST SITTING?
WELL, YOU CAN'T SIT THERE
BECAUSE THAT'S LIKE THE IVY
IT'S THE GREEN ROOM RATHER.
YEAH, IT'S THE GREEN ROOM AND
YOU'RE GOING TO BE STARING
RIGHT AT WINDOWS AND CAN YOU
SIT OVER THERE OR IS IT I THINK
IT MIGHT BE LONG OVER THERE
RIGHT NOW.
NO, NO YOU'RE RIGHT.
IT'S YOU'RE STONES WELL THEY'RE
SHOWING IT AS GREEN SO MAYBE
THEY'RE JUST I DON'T KNOW I
ASSUME THAT THAT WOULD BE LAWN
BUT I GUESS I DON'T KNOW THE
ANSWER TO THAT.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING I CAN LET
US KNOW.
BUT I MEAN JUST THAT WOULD BE
ONE WAY TO SOFTEN THE DESIGN
WOULD BE TO GET RID OF THAT
STONE WALL OVER THERE THAT THEY
DON'T REALLY NEED IF THEY DON'T
REALLY NEED IT.
YEAH, IF THAT'S A CONCERN,
WHAT'S THE ADDRESS IT'S GOING
TO LOOK AT US ON GOOGLE EARTH
IS SEVEN TWENTY ONE E HERE I
THINK IT'S GOING TO GO.
THANK YOU.
SOME TWEETS DIRECTLY ACROSS THE
STREET FROM THAT LITTLE FARSAD
CARNEGIE LIBRARY.
YEAH
I MEAN YOU BRING UP THE
STREET IT IS ACTUALLY KIND
OF AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN THE
PROJECT HERE ON STREET IS DOES
IT SAY WHAT STANSON YEAH.
WHAT IS THE CHARACTER OF THAT
AND OUT NEXT DOOR ARE THOSE TWO
LARGE GABLE HOUSES THAT HAVE
BEEN CONNECTED TO FORM AN
OFFICE BUILDING?
YEAH, SO IT ALSO YOU IT HAS
MUCH MORE OF A RESIDENTIAL
CHARACTER THAN CANTERBURY HOUSE
DOES BUT IT'S CLEARLY BEEN
ALTERED FOR A COMMERCIAL USE.
YEAH, AND TWO HOUSES ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THEIR FOUR HOUSES
I GUESS FOUR HOUSES ON THAT
THAT THEY'RE WHAT BECAUSE FROM
THE POWER CENTER
YEAH.
HERE YOU CAN SEE IN THIS PHOTO
THAT THE DOOR IS THERE AND
YEAH.
NOW WITH THE CARNEGIE LIBRARY
THERE WAS A REASON I'M SORRY
THAT I DON'T RECALL IT WAS
THERE WAS A REASON THAT THEY
WANTED THIS FENCE GOING AROUND
OR IF A FENCE THE LOW WALL OK,
I'LL JUST HAVE TO ASK THEM TO
CLARIFY IT WAS THAT'S STONE IS
IT REAL STONE OR IS IT JUST
KIND OF YEAH I THINK IT'S REAL.
OK, LET'S GO BACK TO THE DETAIL
AND THEN KIND OF STACKED BLACK
SEA WALL THE THEY ALSO HAVE AN
ALTERNATIVE PROPOSAL WHICH I
TOLD THEM THEY COULDN'T DO FOR
A FINAL APPLICATION THAT THAT'S
THAT'S THAT'S SHOPPING AND YOU
GUYS ARE SUPPOSED TO JUST BE
EVALUATING A PROPOSAL BUT THAT
WAS TO USE GRAVEL GARDEN AND I
I WOULD NOT RECOMMEND THAT THEY
USE THAT.
YOU DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S
APPROPRIATE FOR A PROMINENT
CORNER NO MATTER WHAT IT'S
ACROSS FROM OUR NEXT TO SO IT
LOOKS CHARMING IN CENTRAL PARK
BUT PROBABLY OUT HERE.
SO THE DETAILS HERE ARE
REMOVING A REMOVE EXISTING
GROUND COVER AND SHRUBS.
I THINK THAT'S WHY I ASSUMED IT
WOULD BE CRESTONE HERE SAYS
REMOVE GROUND COVER .
YEAH, THE WALK REMOVE PICKET
FENCE AND REDO THE DECK.
SO I'M NOT ASKING YOU TO MAKE
ANY SORT OF A DECISION BUT DO
YOU HAVE ANY GENERAL FEEDBACK
ON WHAT A HARDSCAPE CORNER LIKE
THIS WHAT SORT OF EFFECT WOULD
HAVE THE OLD FOURTH WARD I AM
I'M A LITTLE MORE OPEN TO
BLUESTONE BECAUSE YOU KNOW, IT
DOES LOOK A LITTLE MORE RUSTIC,
A LITTLE MORE NATURAL THAN IF
IT WERE JUST PAVERS OR BRICKS,
A LITTLE MORE RESIDENTIAL
GARDENING YARD.
YEAH, YEAH.
BUT IT'S TOUGH FOR THE FRONT
YARD.
YEAH.
WELL WHEN YOUR FRONT YARD IS A
FOUR LANE STREET YOU KNOW
OILING STREET THERE'S THAT SO
THERE'S THAT I THINK THAT THE
CONTEXT YOU KNOW TO ME IN THE
CONTEXT IT SEEMS LIKE IT'S NOT
RESIDENTIAL IT'S THE CONTEXT
ISN'T REALLY RESIDENTIAL AND SO
THIS SEEMS THIS WOULD NOT BE
APPROPRIATE FOR RESIDENTIAL BUT
IT'S NOT RESIDENTIAL.
SO I CAN I CAN PICTURE THIS
MORE I DON'T KNOW IF THE OLD
FOURTH WARD IS REALLY DO THEY
HAVE A GOOD ENTRANCE FROM HERE
UNNECESSARILY?
I FEEL LIKE THEY'VE GOT BETTER
ENTRANCES FROM OTHER STREETS OR
SOMETHING.
YEAH YEAH.
IT'S SADLY YEAH YEAH YEAH I
KIND OF AGREE ALTHOUGH I'M
STILL LIKE ONCE AGAIN IT'S LIKE
BLOCK WALL I MEAN IT'S THAT
CONCRETE BLOCK THAT'S THAT
THAT'S A I DON'T LIKE THAT YEAH
AND THAT'S THIS I MEAN I LIKE
THE FLAGSTONE YEAH.
IT'S SORT OF YOU KNOW DEPTH
IT'S GIVEN LIKE A PADDOCK.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
BUT THIS IS KIND OF LOOKS LIKE
PAVERS GOODNESS THAT'S WHAT
DOESN'T LOOK RESIDENTIAL.
WELL YEAH IT DOES AT THE START
THAT REPLACEMENT FOR THE DAC
THAT'S IT DOESN'T LOOK
RESIDENTIAL TO ME BUT IT'S NOT
WORKING HERE.
I KNOW BUT IT'S NOT IT GOES
BACK TO IT'S NOT WHAT ARE THE
DARK MATERIALS ATTRACTS.
YEAH YEAH.
SO IT'LL LOOK RESIDENTIAL.
WELL I MEAN IT'S NOT ATTRACTIVE
MATERIAL.
YEAH IT'S THE MATERIAL SO MUCH
IS THAT YOU KNOW THAT SORT OPEN
STYLE IT LOOKS LIKE A GUESS
ENTRANCE TO A PUBLIC BUILDING.
WELL IS IT IS I MEAN BUT THAT
GOES BACK SORT OF LIKE WHAT IS
THE CHARACTER WE'RE TRYING TO
IT'S A LITTLE BIT LIKE I THINK
THE RESIDENTIAL SHIP HAS SAILED
.
YEAH, IT'S A LITTLE BIT LIKE
YOU KNOW, LITTLE BABY JUNIOR
TREASURE WHERE THEY'RE TRYING
TO PUT A BETTER ENTRANCE ONTO
IT TO MAKE IT LOOK LIKE A
CHURCH BECAUSE IT'S A CHURCH
NOW WITHOUT WRECKING MORE
TREASURE AREN'T BUILDING I
DON'T KNOW ABOUT THOSE LIKE THE
AFTERTHOUGHT A LITTLE GARDEN
BEDS.
YEAH OBVIOUSLY IN THIS VIEW
THEY'RE NOT HELPING ANYTHING
BUT I COULD PICTURE SOMETHING.
WHAT IF YOU DID THE PAINTING ON
THE OUTSIDE OF THE WALL THAT
WOULD CERTAINLY SOFTEN IT UP A
LITTLE BIT.
YEAH I LIKE IT.
YEAH I I THINK THAT'S A GOOD
IDEA BECAUSE THE PRODUCT THAT
THEY'RE WANTING TO USE ON THE
WALL I DON'T THINK IS AND THAT
WOULD SIMPLIFY THE SEATING ON
THE YOU KNOW IF YOU'RE USING
THE WALL FOR SEATING THAT
SIMPLIFIES THAT ON THE INSIDE
AND THEN PUT THE LANTING AROUND
THE OUTSIDE EDGE.
I DO HAVE SOME CONCERNS ABOUT
THIS LONG OPEN OPEN SPACE
THAT'S JUST HARD TO TO CONCRETE
TO TO SIDEWALK
WHICH YOU MAY BE
ASKING THEM TO EXTEND THIS WALL
A LITTLE FARTHER.
YEAH, BUT HOW WIDE IS THAT ANY
MORE WALL IS THE ANSWER NO.
OK THAT MAYBE THE BUSH IS GOING
TO EXTEND A LITTLE BIT.
YEAH WHATEVER THEY PLANT SLABS
IN FRONT OF THE WALL THEY CAN
SOFTEN JUST A LITTLE AND EXTEND
IT.
YEAH JUST TAKE OUT A BIT HERE
AND YEAH OK
OK.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER FINAL THOUGHT.
OK GOOD THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OUR PLEASURE.
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS.
OH WE SHOULD GET A OH YEAH NO I
CAN GO GET IT JUST JUST KEEP
GOING TRUCKIN HERE WITH
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS
I SEE
NONE.
OH I WAS GOING TO ASK WHAT AT&T
CHANNEL NINETY NINE
NEWS BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT I SAY
AT THE BEGINNING I THAT JUST
NOT TODAY I HAVE THAT EVERY
YEAH THAT THAT WAS MY CONCERN
THAT THE SETOUT LIKE THAT'S
WHAT YOU GOOGLE AND YOUTUBE TO
GET TO THE CHANNEL THEN WHY
WOULD IT BE ONE I'D LIKE TO
HAVE A STREAMING SERVICE.
EXACTLY IT'S YEAH THAT THAT
MIGHT WELL ASK.
YEAH I IT WHEN SHE COMES BACK I
KNOW WHAT THE STATUS
COMMISSIONERS' IS.
OK WE'LL ASK AS WELL HOW TO
WATCH CHANNEL NINE AT&T
COMMUNITY FORUMS.
WE HAD A QUESTION FOR A REVIEW
IN THE CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS.
THIS IS VERY RANDOM BUT AT THE
BEGINNING THE CHAIRPERSON SAYS
EIGHTEEN TO CHANNEL NINETY NINE
WHAT IS THAT CABLE I MEAN I
ASSUME IT'S EIGHTY UNIVERSE OR
SOMETHING UNIVERSE CHANNELS BUT
I DON'T KNOW LOCAL GOVERNMENT
THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC
ACCESS CHANNEL BUT HOW DO YOU
ACCESS IT IF YOU AT&T WHITE
THOUGH I THINK AT&T IS LIKE
AT&T FIBER AND YEAH YOU KNOW
HOW WOULD YOU GET THAT ON YOUR
DEVICE?
WHAT WOULD YOU DO?
WELL YOU DON'T THINK IT'S JUST
SO YOU COULD WATCH IT.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO INVESTIGATE THAT
THE CITY SUPPORTING THAT ONE
SERVICE.
YEAH, IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE BUT
WE'LL FIND OUT.
AND THEN WE WERE WONDERING IF
YOU CAN UPDATE US ON ON ANY NEW
COMMISSIONERS COMING OR IS
THERE ANY ANY DISCUSSION THERE?
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
THERE IS ONE NEW COMMISSIONER
WHO HAS BEEN NOMINATED BY CITY
COUNCIL AT THE LAST MEETING
LAST WEEK.
GREAT.
AND HIS NAME WILL BE ON THE
NEXT JUNE AGENDA WHICH IS THE
TWENTIETH OF JUNE FOR
CONFIRMATION.
SO THAT'S ONE OF THE THREE
POSITIONS FILLED.
OK, HERE WE HAD SOME LITTLE
PROBLEMS WITH NOT KNOWING THAT
PEOPLE WERE NOT RESIDENTS AND
HAVING THEM GET FURTHER IN THE
PROCESS THAN THEY SHOULD HAVE
AND THAT WAS SO THAT PERSON
COULD BE HERE FOR THE JULY
BEING THE NEW PERSON.
YES, YEAH.
YEAH, OK.
AND I'VE ALREADY BEEN IN TOUCH
WITH HIM AND ASKED HIM TO BE
PREPARED TO BE AT THE MEETING
THAT SO YEAH I THINK THAT
THAT'LL BE VERY HELPFUL AND AND
THE MAYOR IS WORKING ON
NOMINATING TWO MORE FANTASTIC
THAT IS GOOD NEWS ANY OTHER
CONCERNS?
LET'S MOVE ON TO COMMUNICATIONS
.
DO WE HAVE ANY COMMUNICATION?
NO THIS MEANS OK BEFORE I
ADJOURN THE JUNE NEED TWENTY
TWENTY THREE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION MEETING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU ALL.
>> THANK YOU ALL.
THANK YOU ALL